ABELCET(Amphotericin B Lipid Complex Injection)DESCRIPTIONABELCET is a sterile, pyrogen-free suspension for intravenous infusion.
ABELCET consists of ampho-tericin B complexed with two phospholipids in a 1:1 drug-to-lipid molar ratio.
The two phospholipids,L-&#x3b1;-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and L-&#x3b1;-dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol (DMPG), are pre-sent in a 7:3 molar ratio.
ABELCET is yellow and opaque in appearance, with a pH of 5 - 7.
 NOTE: Liposomal encapsulation or incorporation in a lipid complex can substantially affect adrug's functional properties relative to those of the unencapsulated or nonlipid-associated drug.
Inaddition, different liposomal or lipid-complexed products with a common active ingredient mayvary from one another in the chemical composition and physical form of the lipid component.
Suchdifferences may affect functional properties of these drug products.
Amphotericin B is a polyene, antifungal antibiotic produced from a strain of Streptomyces nodosus.Amphotericin B is designated chemically as [1R-(1R*, 3S*, 5R*, 6R*, 9R*, 11R*, 15S*, 16R*, 17R*,18S*, 19E, 21E, 23E, 25E, 27E, 29E, 31E, 33R*, 35S*, 36R*, 37S*)]-33-[(3-Amino-3, 6-dideoxy--D-mannopyranosyl) oxy]-1,3,5,6,9,11,17,37-octahydroxy-15,16,18-trimethyl-13-oxo-14,39-dioxabicy-clo[33.3.1] nonatriaconta-19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31-heptaene-36-carboxylic acid.
 It has a molecular weight of 924.09 and a molecular formula of C47H73NO17.
The structural formula is:
 ABELCET is provided as a sterile, opaque suspension in 20 mL glass, single-use vials.
Each 20 mL vial contains 100 mg of amphotericin B (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION), and each mL ofABELCET contains: Amphotericin B USP 5 mgL-&#x3b1;-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) 3.4 mgL-&#x3b1;-dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol (DMPG) 1.5 mgSodium Chloride USP 9 mgWater for Injection USP, q.s.
1 mL
MICROBIOLOGYMechanism of ActionThe active component of ABELCET, amphotericin B, acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane ofsusceptible fungi, with a resultant change in the permeability of the membrane.
Mammalian cell membranes also contain sterols, and damage to human cells is believed to occur through the samemechanism of action.
Activity in vitro and in vivoABELCET shows in vitro activity against Aspergillus sp.
(n=3) and Candida sp.
(n=10), with MICs gen-erally &lt;1 g/mL.
Depending upon the species and strain of Aspergillus and Candida tested, significantin vitro differences in susceptibility to amphotericin B have been reported (MICs ranging from 0.1 to&gt;10 g/mL).
However, standardized techniques for susceptibility testing for antifungal agents have notbeen established, and results of susceptibility studies do not necessarily correlate with clinical outcome.
ABELCET is active in animal models against Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans, C. guiller-mondii, C. stellatoideae, and C. tropicalis, Cryptococcus sp., Coccidioidomyces sp., Histoplasma sp.,and Blastomyces sp.
in which end-points were clearance of microorganisms from target organ(s)and/or prolonged survival of infected animals.
Drug ResistanceFungal species with decreased susceptibility to amphotericin B have been isolated after serial passagein culture media containing the drug, and from some patients receiving prolonged therapy.
Althoughthe relevance of drug resistance to clinical outcome has not been established, fungal species which areresistant to amphotericin B may also be resistant to ABELCET.
 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYPharmacokineticsThe assay used to measure amphotericin B in the blood after the administration of ABELCET does notdistinguish amphotericin B that is complexed with the phospholipids of ABELCET from amphotericin Bthat is uncomplexed.
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B after the administration of ABELCET are nonlinear.
Volumeof distribution and clearance from blood increase with increasing dose of ABELCET, resulting in less than proportional increases in blood concentrations of amphotericin B over a dose range of 0.6-5 mg/kg/day.
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B in whole blood after the administration ofABELCET and amphotericin B desoxycholate are:
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Amphotericin B in Whole Blood in Patients Administered Multiple Doses of ABELCET or Amphotericin B Desoxycholate
ABELCET Amphotericin B 5 mg/kg/day for 5-7 days 0.6 mg/kg/day for 42 daysa
Pharmacokinetic Parameter Mean  SD Mean  SD
Peak Concentration (g/mL) 1.7  0.8 (n=10)b 1.1  0.2 (n=5)Concentration at End of Dosing Interval (g/mL) 0.6  0.3 (n=10)b 0.4  0.2 (n=5)Area Under Blood Concentration-Time Curve
 (AUC0-24h) (g*h/mL) 14.0  7 (n=14)b,c 17.1  5 (n=5)
Clearance (mL/h*kg) 436.0  188.5 (n=14)b,c 38.0  15 (n=5)Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vdarea) (L/kg) 131.0  57.7 (n=8)
c 5.0  2.8 (n=5)Terminal Elimination Half-Life (h) 173.4  78 (n=8)c 91.1  40.9 (n=5)Amount Excreted in Urine Over 24 h
 After Last Dose (% of dose)d 0.9  0.4 (n=8)c 9.6  2.5 (n=8)
a Data from patients with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis.
Infusion rate was 0.25 mg/kg/h.b Data from studies in patients with cytologically proven cancer being treated with chemotherapy or
neutropenic patients with presumed or proven fungal infection.
Infusion rate was 2.5 mg/kg/h.c Data from patients with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis.
Infusion rate was 4 mg/kg/h.d Percentage of dose excreted in 24 hours after last dose.
The large volume of distribution and high clearance from blood of amphotericin B after the admis-tration of ABELCET probably reflect uptake by tissues.
The long terminal elimination half-life probablyreflects a slow redistribution from tissues.
Although amphotericin B is excreted slowly, there is littleaccumulation in the blood after repeated dosing.
AUC of amphotericin B increased approximately 34%from day 1 after the administration of ABELCET 5 mg/kg/day for 7 days.
The effect of gender or eth-nicity on the pharmacokinetics of ABELCET has not been studied.
Tissue concentrations of amphotericin B have been obtained at autopsy from one heart transplantpatient who received three doses of ABELCET at 5.3 mg/kg/day:
This pattern of distribution is consistent with that observed in preclinical studies in dogs in whichgreatest concentrations of amphotericin B after ABELCET administration were observed in the liver,spleen, and lung; however, the relationship of tissue concentrations of amphotericin B to its biologicalactivity when administered as ABELCET is unknown.
Special PopulationsHepatic Impairment: The effect of hepatic impairment on the disposition of ABELCET is not known.Renal Impairment: The effect of renal impairment on the disposition of ABELCET is not known.
The
effect of dialysis on the elimination of ABELCET has not been studied; however, amphotericin B is notremoved by hemodialysis when administered as amphotericin B desoxycholate.
Pediatric and Elderly Patients: The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of pediatric patients(&#x2265;16 years of age) and elderly patients (&#x2265;65 years of age) have not been studied.
INDICATIONS AND USAGEABELCET is indicated for the treatment of invasive fungal infections in patients who are refractory toor intolerant of conventional amphotericin B therapy.
This is based on open-label treatment of patientsjudged by their physicians to be intolerant to or failing conventional amphotericin B therapy (SeeDESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIES).
    DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIESFungal InfectionsData from 473 patients were pooled from three open-label studies in which ABELCET was provided forthe treatment of patients with invasive fungal infections who were judged by their physicians to berefractory to or intolerant of conventional amphotericin B, or who had preexisting nephrotoxicity.Results of these studies demonstrated effectiveness of ABELCET in the treatment of invasive fungal infections as a second line therapy.
Patients were defined by their individual physician as being refractory to or failing conventionalamphotericin B therapy based on overall clinical judgement after receiving a minimum total dose of 500 mg of amphotericin B. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a serum creatinine that had increased to &gt;2.5 mg/dL in adults and &gt;1.5 mg/dL in pediatric patients, or a creatinine clearance of &lt;25 mL/minwhile receiving conventional amphotericin B therapy.
Of the 473 patients, four were enrolled more than once; each enrollment contributed separately tothe denominator.
The median age was 39 years (range of &lt;1 to 93 years); 307 patients were male and166 female.
Patients were Caucasian (381, 81%), African-American (41, 9%), Hispanic (27, 6%), Asian(10, 2%), and various other races (14, 3%).
The median baseline neutrophil count was 4,000 PMN/mm3; of these, 101 (21%) had a baseline neutrophil count &lt;500/mm3.
Two-hundred eighty-two patients of the 473 patients were considered evaluable for response to ther-apy; the other 191 patients were excluded on the basis of unconfirmed diagnosis, confounding factors,concomitant systemic antifungal therapy, or receiving 4 doses or less of ABELCET.
For evaluablepatients, the following fungal infections were treated (n=282): aspergillosis (n=111), candidiasis(n=87), zygomycosis (n=25), cryptococcosis (n=16), and fusariosis (n=11).
There were fewer than 10evaluable patients for each of several other fungal species treated.
For each type of fungal infection listed above there were some patients successfully treated.However, in the absence of controlled studies it is unknown how response would have compared toeither continuing conventional amphotericin B therapy or the use of alternative antifungal agents.
Renal Function: Patients with aspergillosis who initiated treatment with ABELCET when serum crea-tinine was above 2.5 mg/dL experienced a decline in serum creatinine during treatment (Figure 1).Serum creatinine levels were also lower during treatment with ABELCET when compared to the serumcreatinine levels of patients treated with conventional amphotericin B in a retrospective historical con-trol study.
Meaningful statistical testing of the differences between these two groups is precluded sincethese data were obtained from two separate studies.
 OHHO
O
O
O O
O
H
OHOH
OH
OHOHOHOHHOCOOH
NH2
CH3
CH3
H3C
H3C
I-101-41-US-N 
[ ]= Number of patients at each time point.Note: These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient, but that of an open-labelcohort of patients.
[ ]= Number of patients at each time point.Note: These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient, but that of an open-labelcohort of patients.
Concentration in Human Tissues
Amphotericin B Organ Tissue Concentration (g/g)
Spleen 290.0Lung 222.0Liver 196.0Lymph Node 7.6Kidney 6.9Heart 5.0Brain 1.6
In a randomized study of ABELCET for the treatment of invasive candidiasis in patients with nor-mal baseline renal function, the incidence of nephrotoxicity was significantly less for ABELCET at adose of 5 mg/kg/day than for conventional amphotericin B at a dose of 0.7 mg/kg/day.
Despite generally less nephrotoxicity of ABELCET observed at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day comparedwith conventional amphotericin B therapy at a dose range of 0.6-1 mg/kg/day, dose-limiting renal toxicity may still be observed with ABELCET.
Renal toxicity of doses greater than 5 mg/kg/day ofABELCET has not been formally studied.
CONTRAINDICATIONSABELCET is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to amphotericin B or anyother component in the formulation.
WARNINGSAnaphylaxis has been reported with amphotericin B desoxycholate and other amphotericin B-con-taining drugs.
Anaphylaxis has been reported with ABELCET with an incidence rate of &lt;0.1%.
Ifsevere respiratory distress occurs, the infusion should be immediately discontinued.
The patientshould not receive further infusions of ABELCET.
PRECAUTIONSGeneral: As with any amphotericin B-containing product, during the initial dosing of ABELCET, thedrug should be administered under close clinical observation by medically trained personnel.
Acute reactions including fever and chills may occur 1 to 2 hours after starting an intravenous infu-sion of ABELCET.
These reactions are usually more common with the first few doses of ABELCET
and generally diminish with subsequent doses.
Infusion has been rarely associated with hypotension,bronchospasm, arrhythmias, and shock.
Laboratory Tests: Serum creatinine should be monitored frequently during ABELCET therapy (seeADVERSE REACTIONS).
It is also advisable to regularly monitor liver function, serum electrolytes(particularly magnesium and potassium), and complete blood counts.
Drug Interactions: No formal clinical studies of drug interactions have been conducted with ABELCET.
However, when administered concomitantly, the following drugs are known to interactwith amphotericin B; therefore, the following drugs may interact with ABELCET:
 Antineoplastic agents: Concurrent use of antineoplastic agents and amphotericin B may enhancethe potential for renal toxicity, bronchospasm, and hypotension.
Antineoplastic agents should begiven concomitantly with ABELCET with great caution.
Corticosteroids and corticotropin (ACTH): Concurrent use of corticosteroids and corticotropin(ACTH) with amphotericin B may potentiate hypokalemia which could predispose the patient to car-diac dysfunction.
If used concomitantly with ABELCET, serum electrolytes and cardiac functionshould be closely monitored.
Cyclosporin A: Data from a prospective study of prophylactic ABELCET in 22 patients undergoingbone marrow transplantation suggested that concurrent initiation of cyclosporin A and ABELCET
within several days of bone marrow ablation may be associated with increased nephrotoxicity.
 Digitalis glycosides: Concurrent use of amphotericin B may induce hypokalemia and may potenti-ate digitalis toxicity.
When administered concomitantly with ABELCET, serum potassium levelsshould be closely monitored.
Flucytosine: Concurrent use of flucytosine with amphotericin B-containing preparations mayincrease the toxicity of flucytosine by possibly increasing its cellular uptake and/or impairing its renalexcretion.
Flucytosine should be given concomitantly with ABELCET with caution.
 Imidazoles (e.g., ketoconazole, miconazole, clotrimazole, fluconazole, etc.): Antagonism betweenamphotericin B and imidazole derivatives such as miconazole and ketoconazole, which inhibit ergos-terol synthesis, has been reported in both in vitro and in vivo animal studies.
The clinical significanceof these findings has not been determined.
 Leukocyte transfusions: Acute pulmonary toxicity has been reported in patients receiving intra-venous amphotericin B and leukocyte transfusions.
Leukocyte transfusions and ABELCET should notbe given concurrently.
Other nephrotoxic medications: Concurrent use of amphotericin B and agents such as aminoglyco-sides and pentamidine may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Aminoglycosidesand pentamidine should be used concomitantly with ABELCET only with great caution.
Intensivemonitoring of renal function is recommended in patients requiring any combination of nephrotoxicmedications.
Skeletal muscle relaxants: Amphotericin B-induced hypokalemia may enhance the curariform effectof skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g., tubocurarine) due to hypokalemia.
When administered concomitantly with ABELCET, serum potassium levels should be closely monitored.
Zidovudine: Increased myelotoxicity and nephrotoxicity were observed in dogs when either ABELCET (at doses 0.16 or 0.5 times the recommended human dose) or amphotericin B desoxy-cholate (at 0.5 times the recommended human dose) were administered concomitantly with zidovu-dine for 30 days.
If zidovudine is used concomitantly with ABELCET, renal and hematologic functionshould be closely monitored.
Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility: No long-term studies in animals havebeen performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ABELCET.
The following in vitro (with andwithout metabolic activation) and in vivo studies to assess ABELCET for mutagenic potential wereconducted: bacterial reverse mutation assay, mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay, chromoso-mal aberration assay in CHO cells, and in vivo mouse micronucleus assay.
ABELCET was found tobe without mutagenic effects in all assay systems.
Studies demonstrated that ABELCET had noimpact on fertility in male and female rats at doses up to 0.32 times the recommended human dose(based on body surface area considerations).
  Pregnancy: There are no reports of pregnant women having been treated with ABELCET.
TeratogenicEffects.
Pregnancy Category B: Reproductive studies in rats and rabbits at doses of ABELCET up to0.64 times the human dose revealed no harm to the fetus.
Because animal reproductive studies arenot always predictive of human response, and adequate and well-controlled studies have not beenconducted in pregnant women, ABELCET should be used during pregnancy only after taking intoaccount the importance of the drug to the mother.
 Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether ABELCET is excreted in human milk.
Because many drugsare excreted in human milk, and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-fedinfants from ABELCET, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinuethe drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
  Pediatric Use: One hundred eleven children (2 were enrolled twice and counted as separate patients),age 16 years and under, of whom 11 were less than 1 year, have been treated with ABELCET at 5 mg/kg/day in two open-label studies and one small, prospective, single-arm study.
In one single-center study, 5 children with hepatosplenic candidiasis were effectively treated with 2.5 mg/kg/day ofABELCET.
No serious unexpected adverse events have been reported.
 Geriatric Use: Forty-nine elderly patients, age 65 years or over, have been treated with ABELCET at5 mg/kg/day in two open-label studies and one small, prospective, single-arm study.
No serious unex-pected adverse events have been reported.
ADVERSE REACTIONSThe total safety data base is composed of 921 patients treated with ABELCET (5 patients wereenrolled twice and counted as separate patients), of whom 775 were treated with 5 mg/kg/day.
Ofthese 775 patients, 194 patients were treated in four comparative studies; 25 were treated in open-label, non-comparative studies; and 556 patients were treated in an open-label, emergency-use pro-gram.
Most had underlying hematologic neoplasms, and many were receiving multiple concomitantmedications.
Of the 556 patients treated with ABELCET, 9% discontinued treatment due to adverseevents regardless of presumed relationship to study drug.
In general, the adverse events most commonly reported with ABELCET were transient chills and/orfever during infusion of the drug.
Adverse Eventsa with an Incidence of &#x2265;3% (N=556)
Adverse Event Percentage (%) of Patients
Chills 18Fever 14Increased Serum Creatinine 11Multiple Organ Failure 11Nausea 9Hypotension 8Respiratory Failure 8Vomiting 8Dyspnea 7Sepsis 7Diarrhea 6Headache 6Cardiac Arrest 6Hypertension 5Hypokalemia 5Infection 5Kidney Failure 5Pain 5Thrombocytopenia 5Abdominal Pain 4Anemia 4Hyperbilirubinemia 4Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage 4Leukopenia 4Rash 4Respiratory Disorder 4Chest Pain 3Nausea and Vomiting 3
The following adverse events have also been reported in patients using ABELCET in open-label,uncontrolled clinical studies.
The causal association between these adverse events and ABELCET isuncertain.Body as a whole: malaise, weight loss, deafness, injection site reaction including inflammationAllergic: bronchospasm, wheezing, asthma, anaphylactoid and other allergic reactionsCardiopulmonary: cardiac failure, pulmonary edema, shock, myocardial infarction, hemoptysis,tachypnea, thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolus, cardiomyopathy, pleural effusion, arrhythmiasincluding ventricular fibrillationDermatological: maculopapular rash, pruritus, exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiformeGastrointestinal: acute liver failure, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, anorexia, dyspepsia, cramping, epi-gastric pain, veno-occlusive liver disease, diarrhea, hepatomegaly, cholangitis, cholecystitisHematologic: coagulation defects, leukocytosis, blood dyscrasias including eosinophiliaMusculoskeletal: myasthenia, including bone, muscle, and joint painsNeurologic: convulsions, tinnitus, visual impairment, hearing loss, peripheral neuropathy, transientvertigo, diplopia, encephalopathy, cerebral vascular accident, extrapyramidal syndrome and otherneurologic symptomsUrogenital: oliguria, decreased renal function, anuria, renal tubular acidosis, impotence, dysuriaSerum electrolyte abnormalities: hypomagnesemia, hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypercalcemiaLiver function test abnormalities: increased AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, LDHRenal function test abnormalities: increased BUNOther test abnormalities: acidosis, hyperamylasemia, hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia,hypophosphatemiaTo report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
at 1-888-393-4584 or by email at drugsafety@sigmatau.com or contact the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 orwww.fda.gov/safety/medwatch.OVERDOSAGEAmphotericin B desoxycholate overdose has been reported to result in cardio-respiratory arrest.Fifteen patients have been reported to have received one or more doses of ABELCET between 7-13 mg/kg.
None of these patients had a serious acute reaction to ABELCET.
If an overdose is suspected, discontinue therapy, monitor the patient's clinical status, and administer supportive therapy as required.
ABELCET is not hemodialyzable.DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONThe recommended daily dosage for adults and children is 5 mg/kg given as a single infusion.
ABELCET should be administered by intravenous infusion at a rate of 2.5 mg/kg/h.
If the infusiontime exceeds 2 hours, mix the contents by shaking the infusion bag every 2 hours.
 Renal toxicity of ABELCET, as measured by serum creatinine levels, has been shown to be dosedependent.
Decisions about dose adjustments should be made only after taking into account the over-all clinical condition of the patient.Preparation of Admixture for Infusion: Shake the vial gently until there is no evidence of any yellowsediment at the bottom.
Withdraw the appropriate dose of ABELCET from the required number ofvials into one or more sterile syringes using an 18-gauge needle.
Remove the needle from eachsyringe filled with ABELCET and replace with the 5-micron filter needle supplied with each vial.
Eachfilter needle may be used to filter the contents of up to four 100 mg vials.
Insert the filter needle ofthe syringe into an IV bag containing 5% Dextrose Injection USP, and empty the contents of thesyringe into the bag.
The final infusion concentration should be 1 mg/mL.
For pediatric patients andpatients with cardiovascular disease the drug may be diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection to a finalinfusion concentration of 2 mg/mL.
Before infusion, shake the bag until the contents are thoroughlymixed.
Do not use the admixture after dilution with 5% Dextrose Injection if there is any evidence offoreign matter.
Vials are for single use.
Unused material should be discarded.
Aseptic technique mustbe strictly observed throughout handling of ABELCET, since no bacteriostatic agent or preservativeis present.
 DO NOT DILUTE WITH SALINE SOLUTIONS OR MIX WITH OTHER DRUGS OR ELECTROLYTES asthe compatibility of ABELCET with these materials has not been established.
An existing intravenousline should be flushed with 5% Dextrose Injection before infusion of ABELCET, or a separate infusionline should be used.
DO NOT USE AN IN-LINE FILTER.
The diluted ready-for-use admixture is stable for up to 48 hours at 2 to 8C (36 to 46F) and anadditional 6 hours at room temperature.HOW SUPPLIEDSingle-use vials along with 5-micron filter needles are individually packaged.
100 mg of ABELCET in 20 mL of suspension NDC 57665-101-41STORAGEPrior to admixture, ABELCET should be stored at 2 to 8C (36 to 46F) and protected from expo-sure to light.
Do not freeze.
ABELCET should be retained in the carton until time of use.
 The admixed ABELCET and 5% Dextrose Injection may be stored for up to 48 hours at 2 to 8C(36 to 46F) and an additional 6 hours at room temperature.
Do not freeze.
Any unused materialshould be discarded.
U.S. Patent Nos.
4,973,4655,616,3346,406,713
I-101-41-US-N
Manufactured by Sigma-Tau PharmaSource, Inc., Indianapolis, IN 46268.Distributed by Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD 20878.Revised 03/2013
aThe causal association between these adverse events and ABELCET is uncertain.
 