AMPHOTECAmphotericin B Cholesteryl SulfateComplex for Injection
AMPHOTEC- amphotericin b injection, lipid complex  InterMune, Inc.----------AMPHOTECAmphotericin B Choles teryl SulfateComplex for Injection
DESCRIPTIONAMPHOTEC is a sterile, pyrogen-free, lyophilized powder for reconstitution and intravenous (IV)administration.
AMPHOTEC consists of a 1:1 (molar ratio) complex of amphotericin B and cholesterylsulfate.
Upon reconstitution, AMPHOTEC forms a colloidal dispersion of microscopic disc-shapedparticles.Note: Liposomal encapsulation or incorporation into a lipid complex can substantially affect adrug's  functional properties  relative to those of the unencapsulated drug or non-lipid associateddrug.
In addition, different liposomal or lipid-complex products  with a common active ingredientmay vary from one another in the chemical compos ition and phys ical form of the lipidcomponent.
Such differences  may affect the functional properties  of these drug products .Amphotericin B is an antifungal polyene antibiotic produced by a strain of Streptomyces nodosus.Amphotericin B, which is the established name for [1R (1R*,3S*,5R*,6R*,9R*,11R*,15S*,16R*,17R*,18S*,19E,21E,23E,25E,27E,29E,31E,33R*,35S*,36R*,37S*)]-33-[(3-Amino-3,6-dideoxy--D-mannopyranosyl)oxy]-1,3,5,6,9,11,17,37-octahydroxy-15,16,18-trimethyl-13-oxo-14,39-dioxabicyclo[33.3.1] nonatriaconta-19,21,23,25,27, 29,31-heptaene-36-carboxylic acid, has thefollowing structure:
The molecular formula of the drug is C H NO ; its molecular weight is 924.10.AMPHOTEC is available in 50 mg and 100 mg single dose vials.
Each 50 mg single dose vial containsamphotericin B, 50 mg; sodium cholesteryl sulfate, 26.4 mg; tromethamine, 5.64 mg; disodium edetatedihydrate, 0.372 mg; lactose monohydrate, 950 mg; and hydrochloric acid, qs, as a sterile,nonpyrogenic, lyophilized powder.
Each 100 mg single dose vial contains amphotericin B, 100 mg;sodium cholesteryl sulfate, 52.8 mg; tromethamine, 11.28 mg; disodium edetate dihydrate, 0.744 mg;lactose monohydrate, 1900 mg; and hydrochloric acid, qs, as a sterile, nonpyrogenic, lyophilizedpowder.
MICROBIOLOGYMechanism of ActionThe active ingredient of AMPHOTEC, amphotericin B, is a polyene antibiotic that acts by binding tosterols (primarily ergosterol) in cell membranes of sensitive fungi, with subsequent leakage of
47 73 17
intracellular contents and cell death due to changes in membrane permeability.
Amphotericin B alsobinds to the sterols (primarily cholesterol) in mammalian cell membranes, which is believed to accountfor its toxicity in animals and humans.Activity in vitro and in vivoAMPHOTEC is active in vitro against Aspergillus and Candida species.
One hundred and twelve clinicalisolates of four different Aspergillus species and 88 clinical isolates of five different Candida specieswere tested, with a majority of minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) &lt; 1 g/mL.
AMPHOTEC isalso active in vitro against other fungi.
In vitro, AMPHOTEC is fungistatic or fungicidal, dependingupon the concentration of the drug and the susceptibility of the fungal organism.
However, standardizedtechniques for susceptibility testing for antifungal agents have not been established, and results ofsusceptibility studies do not necessarily correlate with clinical outcome.AMPHOTEC is active in murine models against Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans, Coccidioidesimmitis and Cryptococcus neoformans, and in an immunosuppressed rabbit model of aspergillosis inwhich endpoints were prolonged survival of infected animals and clearance of microorganisms fromtarget organ(s).
AMPHOTEC also was active in a hamster model of visceral leishmaniasis, a diseasecaused by infection of macrophages of the mononuclear phagocytic system by a protozoal parasite ofthe genus Leishmania.
In this hamster model the endpoints were also prolonged survival of infectedanimals and clearance of microorganisms from target organ(s).Drug Res is tanceVariants with reduced susceptibility to amphotericin B have been isolated from several fungal speciesafter serial passage in cell culture media containing the drug and from some patients receivingprolonged therapy with amphotericin B deoxycholate.
Although the relevance of drug resistance toclinical outcome has not been established, fungal organisms that are resistant to amphotericin B mayalso be resistant to AMPHOTEC.
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYPharmacokineticsThe pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as AMPHOTEC, were studied in 51 bonemarrow transplant patients with systemic fungal infections.
The median (range) age and weight of thosepatients were 32 (3 to 52) years and 69.5 (14 to 116) kg, respectively.
AMPHOTEC doses ranged from0.5 to 8.0 mg/kg/day.
The assay used in this study to measure amphotericin B in plasma does notdistinguish amphotericin B that is complexed with cholesteryl sulfate from uncomplexed amphotericinB.
A population modeling approach was used to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters (see table).
Thepharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as AMPHOTEC, were best described by an open,two compartment structural model.
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered asAMPHOTEC, were nonlinear.
Steady state volume of distribution (Vss) and total plasma clearance (CLt)increased with escalating doses, resulting in less than proportional increases in plasma concentrationover a dose range of 0.5 to 8.0 mg/kg/day.
The increased volume of distribution probably reflecteduptake by tissues.
The covariates of body weight and dose level accounted for a substantial portion ofthe variability of the pharmacokinetic estimates between patients.
The unexplained variability inclearance was 26%.
Based on the population model developed for these patients, pharmacokineticparameters were predicted for two doses of AMPHOTEC and are provided in the following table:
Predicted Pharmacokinetic Parameters  of Amphotericin B after Adminis tration of Multiple Dosesof AMPHOTEC [a]
AMPHOTEC (mg/kg/day)Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameter [b] 3 4
[a] Data obtained using population modeling in 51 bone marrow transplant patients.
The modelingassumes amphotericin B pharmacokinetics after administration of AMPHOTEC is best described by a2-compartment model.
Infusion rate = 1 mg/kg/hour.[b] Definitions: Vss - Volume of distribution at steady state, CLt - Total plasma clearance, Cmax -Maximum plasma concentration achieved at the end of an infusion, AUCss - Area under the plasmaconcentration time curve at steady-state.
Vss (L/kg) 3.8 4.1CLt (L/h/kg) 0.105 0.112Distribution Half-Life (minutes) 3.5 3.5Elimination Half-Life (hours) 27.5 28.2Cmax (g/mL) 2.6 2.9AUCss (g/mL&#x2022;h) 29 36
In addition, the pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate, werestudied in 15 patients in whom amphotericin B deoxycholate was administered for the treatment ofaspergillus infections or empirical therapy.
The median (range) age and weight for these patients were21 (4 to 66) years and 60 (19 to 117) kg, respectively.
A population modeling approach was used toestimate the pharmacokinetic parameters.
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered asamphotericin B deoxycholate, was best described as an open, two-compartment model with linearelimination.The predicted pharmacokinetic parameters are provided in the following table:
Predicted Pharmacokinetic Parameters  of Amphotericin B after Adminis tration of Multiple Dosesof 1 mg/kg Amphotericin B Deoxycholate [a]
Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameter [b] Values
[a] Data obtained using population modeling in 15 patients in whom amphotericin B deoxycholate wasadministered for treatment of aspergillus infection or empiric therapy.
The modeling assumesamphotericin B pharmacokinetics after administration of amphotericin B deoxycholate are bestdescribed by a 2-compartment model.
Infusion rate = 0.25 mg/kg/hour.[b] Definitions: Vss - Volume of distribution at steady state, CLt - Total plasma clearance, Cmax -Maximum plasma concentration achieved at the end of an infusion, AUCss - Area under the plasmaconcentration time curve at steady-state.
Vss (L/kg) 1.1CLt (L/h/kg) 0.028Distribution Half-Life (minutes) 38Elimination Half-Life (hours) 39Cmax (g/mL) 2.9AUCss (g/mL&#x2022;h) 36
An analytical assay that is able to distinguish between amphotericin B in the AMPHOTEC complex andamphotericin B which is not complexed to cholesteryl sulfate was used to analyze samples from a studyof 25 patients who were either immunocompromised with aspergillosis or both febrile and neutropenic.Following a 1 mg/kg/hour infusion, 25  18% (mean  SD) of the total amphotericin B concentrationmeasured in plasma was in the AMPHOTEC complex, dropping to 9.3  7.9% at 1 hour and 7.5  9.3%at 24 hours after the end of the infusion.Pharmacokinetics  in Special PopulationsA population modeling approach was used to assess the effect of renal function, hepatic function, andage on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEC in 51 patients receiving bone marrow transplants as
described earlier.Renal Impairment: The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as AMPHOTEC, were notrelated to baseline serum creatinine clearance in the population studied; the median (range) creatinineclearance for this population was 74.0 (range: 35 - 202) mL/min/70 kg.
The effect of more severe renalimpairment on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEC has not been studied.Hepatic Impairment: The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as AMPHOTEC, were notrelated to baseline liver function, as determined by liver enzymes and total bilirubin.
For the populationtested, the mean  SD values for AST and total Bilirubin were 59.4  70.0 IU/mL and 3.5  3.7 mg/dL,respectively.
The effect of more severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEChas not been studied.Age: The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, administered as AMPHOTEC, were not related to theage of the patient.
The median (range) age for the population in this study was 32 (3 to 52) years.
INDICATIONS AND USAGEAMPHOTEC is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in patients where renal impairmentor unacceptable toxicity precludes the use of amphotericin B deoxycholate in effective doses, and inpatients with invasive aspergillosis where prior amphotericin B deoxycholate therapy has failed.
DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIESClinical Studies  in Aspergillos isData from 161 patients with proven or probable aspergillus infection were pooled from 5 non-comparative open label studies, one of which included emergency use patients.
The patients weretreated with AMPHOTEC because of failure to respond to amphotericin B deoxycholate (n=49),development of nephrotoxicity while receiving amphotericin B deoxycholate (n=62), preexisting renalimpairment (n=25), or other reasons (n=25).The median age of these 161 patients (92 males and 69 females) was 41 years (range 2 months to 85years).
For the 155 patients with baseline neutrophil data, 33 patients (21%) had neutrophil counts of &lt;500/mm3.
The underlying diseases included bone marrow transplant, 69 (43%); hematologicalmalignancy, 51(32%); solid organ transplant, 25 (15%); solid tumor, 3 (2%); and other diagnoses, 13(8%) including surgery, 4; HIV infection, 3; immunosuppression for autoimmune disease, 3; diabetes, 2;and no known underlying disease, 1.
Pulmonary involvement was the primary infection site, 118 patients(73%), followed by sinus, 14 (9%), CNS, 9 (6%), skin/wound, 9 (6%), and others, 10 (6%) including 3with bone involvement, 2 with hepatic involvement, 2 with disseminated disease and 1 each withendocarditis, ophthalmitis, otitis, and involvement of the hard palate.
The 49 patients enrolled due tofailure to respond to amphotericin B had received amphotericin B deoxycholate prior to AMPHOTECfor &#x2264;7 days (11 patients), 8 - 14 days (16 patients), and &gt; 14 days (22 patients).Patients were defined by their physicians as being refractory to amphotericin B deoxycholate therapybased on overall clinical judgment after receiving either a minimum of 7 days of amphotericin Bdeoxycholate or a minimum total dose of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin B deoxycholate.
Nephrotoxicitywas defined as a serum creatinine that had doubled from baseline, increased by &#x2265; 1.5 mg/dL or increasedto &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL.
Preexisting renal impairment was defined as a serum creatinine that had increased to &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL due to reasons other than amphotericin B deoxycholate administration.Classifications of diagnosis and response were based on the definitions previously developed by theMycoses Study Group.
 A retrospective response analysis was conducted in which a "complete response" was defined as resolution of all attributable symptoms, signs, and radiographic abnormalitiespresent at enrollment, and a "partial response" was defined as major improvement of the abovementionedparameters.
The total number of responders was the sum of the number of "complete" and "partial"
1
responses.Of the 161 patients, 80 were considered evaluable for response.
Eighty-one (81) were excluded on thebasis of inadequate diagnosis, confounding factors, or receiving &#x2264; 4 doses of AMPHOTEC.
In theevaluable patients, the median daily dose was 4 mg/kg/day (range 0.73 - 7.5 mg/kg/day) and thecumulative median dose was 6.3 g (range 0.36 - 34.4 grams).
Median duration of treatment was 24 days(range 5 - 129 days).
Response Rates  for Evaluable Patients
Patient Group (n) CompleteResponsePartial
ResponseTotal Responders
[a]Response
Rate
[a] Total responders = Complete responses + Partial responses.[b] Defined, based on overall clinical judgment, after receiving a minimum of 7 days of amphotericin Bdeoxycholate or a minimum total dose of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin B deoxycholate.[c] Defined as a serum creatinine that had doubled from baseline or increased by &#x2265; 1.5 mg/dL orincreased to &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL.[d] Defined as a serum creatinine that had increased to &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL due to reasons other thanamphotericin B deoxycholate.
Amphotericin B deoxycholate failure(28) [b] 3 9 12 43%Nephrotoxicity (36) [c] 5 12 17 47%Preexisting renal impairment (16) [d] 1 7 8 50%
Total (80) 9 28 37 46%
There is no directly comparable control group for the patients described in the above table to be certainwhether similar patients would have responded had amphotericin B deoxycholate therapy beencontinued.
A randomized study comparing AMPHOTEC with amphotericin B deoxycholate for therapyof invasive aspergillosis is currently undergoing analysis.Renal FunctionPatients with Renal Dysfunction at BaselineThe subset of patients with aspergillosis from the above five noncomparative open label studies, whoinitiated treatment with AMPHOTEC when their serum creatinine was &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL (n = 47) experienceda mean decline in serum creatinine during treatment.
In part, this decline may be attributed to patientdropout over time from this group.
A historical control group was selected by reviewing medicalcharts of patients from January 1990 to June 1994 at 6 medical centers ( M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, University of Pittsburgh,Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and Bone Marrow Transplant Program at Emory  University).The mean change in serum creatinine was evaluated for similar cohorts of patients from this historicalcontrol group, with the baseline for assessing change being the day each patient's serum creatininereached &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL.
As shown in the figure, serum creatinine levels were lower during treatment withAMPHOTEC when compared to the serum creatinine levels of amphotericin B deoxycholate patients inthe historical control group.
There is no directly comparable group to be certain whether this decline issignificantly better than the results of serum creatinine levels in patients who had continued onamphotericin B deoxycholate.
Since these data were obtained from two separate studies, no statisticaltesting of the differences between these two groups was performed.Changes  in Mean Serum Creatinine Over Time in Patients  with Aspergillos is  and Baseline Serum Creatinine &#x2265; 2.0 mg/dL [a]
[a] These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient, but that of an openlabel cohortof patients.[b] Administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate.Patients with Normal Renal Function at BaselineIn a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study, 213 febrile neutropenic patients were givenempirically either 4 mg/kg/day of AMPHOTEC or 0.8 mg/kg/day of amphotericin B deoxycholate for amaximum of 14 days.
This study was primarily designed to compare the safety profiles of these twotreatments.
NOTE: AMPHOTEC is NOT approved for empirical treatment in febrile neutropenicpatients.In the above study, patients had largely normal renal function at baseline; median serum creatinine levelswere 0.8 mg/dL for both treatment groups.
The mean change in serum creatinine was evaluated forpatients with baseline creatinine &#x2264; 1.5 mg/dL.
As shown in the graph, patients in both treatment groupsshowed an increase in serum creatinine while on study, however AMPHOTEC patients experiencedsignificantly less creatinine increase at each time point.Changes  in Mean Serum Creatinine Over Time in Patients  with Febrile Neutropenia, and Baseline Serum Creatinine &#x2264; 1.5 mg/dL [a]
[a] These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient, but that of a cohort of patients.[b] Administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate.HypokalemiaIn the same empiric study, significantly more amphotericin B deoxycholate patients had at least onelaboratory result of serum potassium &lt; 3.0 mEq/L at least one time in the study compared withAMPHOTEC patients (23% vs. 7%), although concomitant supplemental potassium was allowed in thestudy design.
Both groups received approximately equal amounts of potassium supplementation.HypomagnesemiaIn the same empiric study, there was no overall trend for decreasing serum magnesium in either group.
CONTRAINDICATIONSAMPHOTEC should not be administered to patients who have documented hypersensitivity to any of itscomponents, unless, in the opinion of the physician, the advantages of using AMPHOTEC outweigh therisks of hypersensitivity.
WARNINGSAnaphylaxis has been reported with amphotericin B deoxycholate and other amphotericin B-containingdrugs.
Immediate treatment of anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions is required.
Epinephrine, oxygen,intravenous steroids, and airway management should be administered as indicated.
If severe respiratorydistress occurs, the infusion should be immediately discontinued.
The patient should not receive furtherinfusions of AMPHOTEC.
infusions of AMPHOTEC.
PRECAUTIONSGeneralAMPHOTEC should be administered intravenously.
Acute infusionrelated reactions including fever,chills, hypoxia, hypotension, nausea, or tachypnea, may occur 1 to 3 hours after starting intravenousinfusion.
These reactions are usually more severe or more frequent with the initial doses ofAMPHOTEC and usually diminish with subsequent doses.
Acute infusion-related reactions can bemanaged by pretreatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids and/or by reducing the rate of infusionand by prompt administration of antihistamines and corticosteroids.
(See ADVERSE REACTIONS).Rapid intravenous infusion should be avoided.Laboratory TestsParticularly tests of renal and hepatic function, serum electrolytes, complete blood count andprothrombin time should be monitored as medically indicated.Drug InteractionsNo formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with AMPHOTEC.
When administeredconcomitantly, the following drugs are known to interact with amphotericin B; therefore the followingdrugs may interact with AMPHOTEC.Antineoplastic AgentsConcurrent use of antineoplastic agents and amphotericin B may enhance the potential for renal toxicity,bronchospasm, and hypotension.
Caution is urged when antineoplastic agents are given concomitantlywith AMPHOTEC.Corticosteroids and Corticotropin (ACTH)Concurrent use of corticosteroids and corticotropin (ACTH) with amphotericin B may potentiatehypokalemia which could predispose the patient to cardiac dysfunction.
If corticosteroids orcorticotropin are used concomitantly with AMPHOTEC, serum electrolytes and cardiac function shouldbe monitored.Cyclosporine and TacrolimusIn the same randomized, double-blind, empiric trial to compare AMPHOTEC and amphotericin Bdeoxycholate, patients with normal baseline serum creatinine were prospectively enrolled into fourstrata: adults receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus (n=89); or pediatric patients (&lt; 16 years old)receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus (n=15); adults not receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus (n=75); orpediatric patients not receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus (n=34).
Patients were assessed for renaltoxicity defined as either a doubling or an increase of 1.0 mg/dL or more from baseline serumcreatinine, or &#x2265; 50% decrease from baseline calculated creatinine clearance.
Adults and pediatricpatients receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus in addition to AMPHOTEC had a significantly lower rateof renal toxicity (31%, 16/51), compared to the amphotericin B deoxycholate patients receivingcyclosporine or tacrolimus (68%, 34/50).
In the adults and pediatric patients not receiving cyclosporineor tacrolimus, only 8% (4/51) of the AMPHOTEC patients experienced renal toxicity compared to 35%(17/49) of the amphotericin B deoxycholate patients.Digitalis GlycosidesConcurrent use of amphotericin B may induce hypokalemia and may potentiate digitalis toxicity.
Ifdigitalis glycosides are administered concomitantly with AMPHOTEC, serum potassium levels shouldbe closely monitored.
FlucytosineConcurrent use of flucytosine with amphotericin B containing preparations may increase the toxicity offlucytosine by possibly increasing its cellular uptake and/or impairing its renal excretion.
Caution isurged when flucytosine is given concomitantly with AMPHOTEC.Imidazoles (e.g., ketoconazole, miconazole, clotrimazole, fluconazole, etc.)Antagonism between amphotericin B and imidazole derivatives such as miconazole and ketoconazolewhich inhibit ergosterol synthesis, has been reported in both in vitro and in vivo animal studies.
Theclinical significance of these findings has not been determined.Other Nephrotoxic MedicationsConcurrent use of amphotericin B and agents such as aminoglycosides and pentamidine may enhance thepotential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Caution is urged if aminoglycosides or pentamidine are usedconcomitantly with AMPHOTEC.
Intensive monitoring of renal function is recommended in patientsrequiring any combination of nephrotoxic medications.Skeletal Muscle RelaxantsAmphotericin B-induced hypokalemia may enhance the curariform effect of skeletal muscle relaxants(e.g., tubocurarine) due to hypokalemia.
If skeletal muscle relaxants are administered concomitantly withAMPHOTEC, serum potassium levels should be closely monitored.Carcinogenes is , Mutagenes is  and Impairment of FertilityNo long-term studies in animals have been performed with AMPHOTEC or amphotericin Bdeoxycholate to evaluate carcinogenic potential.
AMPHOTEC and/or amphotericin B deoxycholatewere not mutagenic in vitro with and without an exogenous mammalian microsomal metabolic activationsystem when assayed in the Salmonella reverse mutation assay, the CHO chromosomal aberration assayand the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay.
AMPHOTEC was also negative in vivo in the mousebone marrow micronucleus assay.
No studies have been conducted to determine if AMPHOTEC affectsfertility or if it produces adverse effects when administered peri- or post-natally in animals.
In multipledose toxicity studies of up to 13 weeks in rats at doses up to 0.5 times the recommended human dose andin dogs at doses up to 0.4 times the recommended human dose (based on body surface area), ovarian andtesticular histology were unaffected.PregnancyTeratogenic Effects.
Pregnancy Category B:There are no reports of pregnant women having been treated with AMPHOTEC.
Reproductive studieswith AMPHOTEC in rats at doses up to 0.4 times the recommended human dose and in rabbits at dosesup to 1.1 times the recommended human dose have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due totreatment with AMPHOTEC.
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of humanresponse and because adequate and well controlled studies have not been conducted in pregnant women,AMPHOTEC should be used during pregnancy only if the anticipated benefit to the patient outweighsthe potential risk to the fetus.Nurs ing MothersIt is not known whether AMPHOTEC is excreted in milk.
Because of the potential for serious adversereactions in nursing infants from amphotericin B, a decision should be made to discontinue nursing ordiscontinue treatment with AMPHOTEC, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.Pediatric Use
Ninety-seven pediatric patients with systemic fungal infections have been treated with AMPHOTEC, atdaily doses (mg/kg) similar to those given to adults.
No unexpected adverse events have been reported.In the same empiric, multicenter trial, pediatric patients (&lt; 16 years) treated with AMPHOTEC hadsignificantly less renal toxicity than amphotericin B deoxycholate patients.
Only 12% (3/25) of pediatricpatients treated with AMPHOTEC developed nephrotoxicity compared to 52% (11/21) of pediatricpatients receiving amphotericin B deoxycholate.
Renal toxicity defined as either a doubling or anincrease of 1.0 mg/dL or more from baseline serum creatinine, or &#x2265; 50% decrease from baselinecalculated creatinine clearance.Geriatric UseSixty-eight patients at least 65 years of age have been treated with AMPHOTEC.
No unexpectedadverse events have been reported.
ADVERSE REACTIONSThe following adverse events are based on the experience of 572 AMPHOTEC patients from 5 openstudies of patients with systemic fungal infections, of whom 526 were treated with a daily dose of 3 - 6mg/kg.
Additionally, comparative adverse event data from 150 AMPHOTEC (4 or 6 mg/kg/day) and 146amphotericin B deoxycholate (0.8 or 1 mg/kg/day) patients in prospectively randomized doubleblindedstudies of empiric treatment of febrile and neutropenic patients or treatment of aspergillosis are alsoprovided.Infus ion-related adverse events : Infusion-related adverse events (1 to 3 hours after startingintravenous infusion) occurred most frequently in association with the first infusion of AMPHOTEC.Their frequency and severity decreased with subsequent dosing.
Based on the combined non-comparative studies, 35% (197/569) of the patients reported chills or chills and fever, possibly orprobably related to AMPHOTEC, on the first day of dosing, compared to 14% (58/422) by the seventhdose.
In the comparative studies, a similar decreasing trend was noted for AMPHOTEC andamphotericin B deoxycholate.Adverse events that were considered to be possibly or probably related to AMPHOTEC and thatoccurred in 5% or more of the patients are summarized in the table below:
Summary of Probably and Poss ibly Related Adverse Events  Reported by &#x2265; 5% of AMPHOTECPatients
Non-Comparative Studies Comparative Studies [a]
Adverse Event
AMPHOTEC(n=572)
%
AMPHOTECAspergillosis
Patients (n=161)
%
AMPHOTEC(n=150)
%
Amphotericin BDeoxycholate
(n=146)%
Body as a Whole     Chills 50 55 77 56     Fever 33 34 55 47     Headache 5 8 4 3     Chills and fever 3 3 7 2Cardiovascular System     Hypotension 10 9 12 5     Tachycardia 10 12 9 5     Hypertension 7 9 7 6Digestive System     Nausea 8 12 7 7
[a] From AMPHOTEC (4 or 6 mg/kg/day) and amphotericin B deoxycholate (0.8 or 1 mg/kg/day)patients in prospectively randomized double-blinded studies of empiric treatment of febrile andneutropenic patients or treatment of first-line aspergillosis, respectively.[b] Includes patients with "kidney function abnormal" which was associated with an increase increatinine.
     Nausea 8 12 7 7     Nausea and vomiting 7 11 4 7     Vomiting 6 8 11 8     Liver function test abnormal 4 4 11 8Hemic and Lymphatic System     Thrombocytopenia 6 7 1 1Metabolic/Nutritional Disorders     Creatinine increased [b] 12 12 21 34     Hypokalemia 8 7 26 29     Hypomagnesemia 4 7 6 11     Hyperbilirubinemia 3 2 19 17     Alkaline phosphatase increased 3 3 7 8     Hyperglycemia 1 1 6 9Respiratory System     Dyspnea 5 4 9 4     Hypoxia 5 6 9 5
Additionally, the following adverse events also occurred in 5% or more of AMPHOTEC patients;however, the causal relationship of these adverse events is uncertain:General (body as a whole)Abdomen enlarged, abdominal pain, back pain, chest pain, face edema, injection site inflammation,mucous membrane disorder, pain, sepsisCardiovascular SystemCardiovascular disorder, hemorrhage, postural hypotensionDigestive SystemDiarrhea, dry mouth, hematemesis, jaundice, stomatitisHemic and Lymphatic SystemAnemia, coagulation disorder, prothrombin decreasedMetabolic and Nutritional DisordersEdema, generalized edema, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, peripheral edema, weight gainNervous SystemConfusion, dizziness, insomnia, somnolence, thinking abnormal, tremorRespiratory SystemApnea, asthma, cough increased, epistaxis, hyperventilation, lung disorder, rhinitisSkin and Appendages
Maculopapular rash, pruritis, rash, sweatingSpecial SensesEye hemorrhageUrogenitalHematuriaThe following adverse events occurred in 1% to less than 5% of AMPHOTEC patients.
The causalassociation between these adverse events and AMPHOTEC is uncertain.General (body as a whole)Accidental injury, allergic reaction, asthenia, death, hypothermia, immune system disorder, infection,injection site pain, injection site reaction, neck painCardiovascular SystemArrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, congestive heart failure, heart arrest, phlebitis, shock,supraventricular tachycardia, syncope, vasodilatation, venoocclusive liver disease, ventricularextrasystolesDigestive SystemAnorexia, bloody diarrhea, constipation, dyspepsia, fecal incontinence, gamma glutamyl transpeptidaseincreased, gastrointestinal disorder, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, gingivitis, glossitis, hepatic failure,melena, mouth ulceration, oral moniliasis, rectal disorderHemic and Lymphatic SystemEcchymosis, fibrinogen increased, hypochromic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, petechia,thromboplastin decreasedMetabolic and Nutritional DisordersAcidosis, BUN increased, dehydration, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hyperlipemia, hypernatremia,hypervolemia, hypoglycemia, hypoproteinemia, lactic dehydrogenase increased, AST (SGOT)increased, ALT (SGPT) increased, weight lossMusculoskeletal SystemArthralgia, myalgiaNervous SystemAgitation, anxiety, convulsion, depression, hallucinations, hypertonia, nervousness, neuropathy,paresthesia, psychosis, speech disorder, stuporRespiratory SystemHemoptysis, lung edema, pharyngitis, pleural effusion, respiratory disorder, sinusitisSkin and AppendagesAcne, alopecia, petechial rash, skin discoloration, skin disorder, skin nodule, skin ulcer, urticaria,vesiculobullous rashSpecial SensesAmblyopia, deafness, ear disorder, tinnitus
Urogenital SystemAlbuminuria, dysuria, glycosuria, kidney failure, oliguria, urinary incontinence, urinary retention,urinary tract disorder
OVERDOSAGEAMPHOTEC is not dialyzable.
Amphotericin B deoxycholate overdose has been reported to result incardio-respiratory arrest.
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONThe recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients is 3 - 4 mg/kg as required, once a day.AMPHOTEC, reconstituted in Sterile Water for Injection, is administered diluted in 5% Dextrose forInjection by intravenous infusion at a rate of 1 mg/kg/hour.
A test dose immediately preceding the firstdose is advisable when commencing all new courses of treatment.
A small amount of drug (e.g., 10 mLof the final preparation containing between 1.6 to 8.3 mg) should be infused over 15 to 30 minutes andthe patient carefully observed for the next 30 minutes.The infusion time may be shortened to a minimum of 2 hours for patients who show no evidence ofintolerance or infusion-related reactions.
If the patient experiences acute reactions or cannot tolerate theinfusion volume, the infusion time may be extended.Directions  for reconstitution and preparation of infus ion admixtureAMPHOTEC must be reconstituted by addition of Sterile Water for Injection.
Using sterile syringe anda 20-gauge needle, rapidly add the following volumes to the vial to provide a liquid containing 5 mg ofamphotericin B per mL.
Shake gently by hand, rotating the vial until all solids have dissolved.
Note thatthe fluid may be opalescent or clear.
50 mg/vial add 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection100 mg/vial add 20 mL Sterile Water for Injection
For infusion, further dilute the reconstituted liquid to a final concentration of approximately 0.6 mg/mL(range 0.16 mg/mL to 0.83 mg/mL).
The following table provides dilution recommendations:
Dose ofAMPHOTEC
Volume of ReconstitutedAMPHOTEC
Infusion Bag Size for5% Dextrose for Injection
10 - 35 mg 2 - 7 mL 50 mL35 - 70 mg 7 - 14 mL 100 mL
70 - 175 mg 14 - 35 mL 250 mL175 - 350 mg 35 - 70 mL 500 mL
350 - 1000 mg 70 - 200 mL 1000 mL
Do not reconstitute the lyophilized powder with saline or dextrose solutions , or admix thereconstituted liquid with saline or electrolytes .The use of any solution other than those recommended, or the presence of a bacteriostatic agent (e.g.,benzyl alcohol) in the solution may cause precipitation of AMPHOTEC.
Do not filter or use an in-linefilter with AMPHOTEC.Do not mix the infusion admixture with other drugs.
If administered through an existing intravenous line,flush with 5% Dextrose for Injection prior to, and following, infusion of AMPHOTEC, otherwise
administer via a separate line.Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior toadministration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not use if a precipitate or foreign matter ispresent, or if the seal is not intact.
Strict aseptic technique always should be observed duringreconstitution and dilution since no preservatives are present in the lyophilized drug or in the solutionsused for reconstitution and dilution.After reconstitution, the drug should be refrigerated at 2-8C (36-46F) and used within 24 hours.
Donot freeze.
After further dilution with 5% Dextrose for Injection, the infusion should be stored in arefrigerator (2-8C) and used within 24 hours.
Partially used vials should be discarded.
HOW SUPPLIEDAMPHOTEC (Amphotericin B) Cholesteryl Sulfate Complex for Injection is a sterile lyophilizedpowder supplied in single use glass vials.
Each vial is individually packaged.AMPHOTEC 50 mg in 20 mL vial (NDC 64116-025-01)AMPHOTEC 100 mg in 50 mL vial (NDC 64116-021-01)STORAGEStore unopened vials of AMPHOTEC at 15-30C (59-86F).AMPHOTEC should be retained in the carton until time of use.Manufactured by:Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc., Bedford, OH  44146, USADistributed by:InterMune, Inc., Brisbane, CA  94005U.S. Patent Numbers 4,822,777; 5,032,582; 5,194,266; 5,077,057.Rx Only
REFERENCES1   Denning DW, Lee JY, Hostetler JS, et al. NIAID Mycoses Study Group multicenter trial of oralitraconazole therapy for invasive aspergillosis.
     Am J Med.
1994;97:135-144.July 2001LB-1004.2
AMPHOTEC  amphotericin b injection, lipid complex
Product InformationProduct T ype HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG Ite m Code  (Source ) NDC:6 4116 -0 25Route  of Adminis tration INTRAVENOUS DEA Sche dule
     Active Ingredient/Active MoietyIngredient Name Basis o f Strength Strength
a mpho teric in B (UNII: 7XU7A7DROE) (ampho teric in B - UNII:7XU7A7DROE) 50  mg  in 10  mL
Inactive IngredientsIngredient Name Strength
so dium cho lesteryl sulfa te  () 26 .4 mg  in 10  mLtro metha mine  (UNII: 0 23C2WHX2V) 5.6 4 mg  in 10  mLdiso dium edeta te  dihydra te  () 0 .372 mg  in 10  mLla cto se  mo no hydra te  (UNII: EWQ57Q8 I5X) 9 50  mg  in 10  mLhydro chlo ric  a c id  (UNII: QTT1758 2CB)
  Packaging# Item Code Package Description Marketing  Start Date Marketing  End Date1 NDC:6 4116 -0 25-0 1 10  mL in 1 VIAL, SINGLE-USE
AMPHOTEC  amphotericin b injection, lipid complex
Product InformationProduct T ype HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG Ite m Code  (Source ) NDC:6 4116 -0 21Route  of Adminis tration INTRAVENOUS DEA Sche dule
     Active Ingredient/Active MoietyIngredient Name Basis o f Strength Strength
a mpho. teric in B (UNII: 7XU7A7DROE) (ampho teric in B - UNII:7XU7A7DROE) 10 0  mg  in 20  mL
Inactive IngredientsIngredient Name Strength
so dium cho lesteryl sulfa te  () 52.8  mg  in 20  mLtro metha mine  (UNII: 0 23C2WHX2V) 11.28  mg  in 20  mLdiso dium edeta te  dihydra te  () 0 .744 mg  in 20  mLla cto se  mo no hydra te  (UNII: EWQ57Q8 I5X) 19 0 0  mg  in 20  mLhydro chlo ric  a c id  (UNII: QTT1758 2CB)
  Packaging# Item Code Package Description Marketing  Start Date Marketing  End Date1 NDC:6 4116 -0 21-0 1 20  mL in 1 VIAL, SINGLE-USE
Labeler - InterMune, Inc.
InterMune, Inc.
Revised: 2/2006
 AMPHOTEC Amphotericin B Cholesteryl Sulfate Complex for Injection
 DESCRIPTION
 MICROBIOLOGY
 Mechanism of Action
 Activity in vitro and in vivo
 Drug Resistance
 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
 Pharmacokinetics
 Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations
 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
 DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIES
 Clinical Studies in Aspergillosis
 Renal Function
 Patients with Renal Dysfunction at Baseline
 Patients with Normal Renal Function at Baseline
 Hypokalemia
 Hypomagnesemia
 CONTRAINDICATIONS
 WARNINGS
 PRECAUTIONS
 General
 Laboratory Tests
 Drug Interactions
 Antineoplastic Agents
 Corticosteroids and Corticotropin (ACTH)
 Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus
 Digitalis Glycosides
 Flucytosine
 Imidazoles (e.g., ketoconazole, miconazole, clotrimazole, fluconazole, etc.)
 Other Nephrotoxic Medications
 Skeletal Muscle Relaxants
 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility
 Pregnancy
 Teratogenic Effects.
Pregnancy Category B:
 Nursing Mothers
 Pediatric Use
 Geriatric Use
 ADVERSE REACTIONS
 General (body as a whole)
 Cardiovascular System
 Digestive System
 Hemic and Lymphatic System
 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders
 Nervous System
 Respiratory System
 Skin and Appendages
 Special Senses
 Urogenital
 General (body as a whole)
 Cardiovascular System
 Digestive System
 Hemic and Lymphatic System
 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders
 Musculoskeletal System
 Nervous System
 Respiratory System
 Skin and Appendages
 Special Senses
 Urogenital System
 OVERDOSAGE
 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
 Directions for reconstitution and preparation of infusion admixture
 HOW SUPPLIED
 REFERENCES
 