label
    1 451094F/Revised: February 2014
 2 DIPRIVAN 3 (Propofol) INJECTABLE EMULSION, USP4
  5  6 FOR INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION
 7 Rx only
 8 Strict aseptic technique must always be maintained during handling.
 DIPRIVAN
 9 Injectable Emulsion is a single access parenteral product (single patient infusion vial)
 10 which contains 0.005% disodium edetate (EDTA) to inhibit the rate of growth of
 11 microorganisms, for up to 12 hours, in the event of accidental extrinsic contamination.
  12 However, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion can still support the growth of
 13 microorganisms, as it is not an antimicrobially preserved product under USP standards.
  14 Do not use if contamination is suspected.
Discard unused drug product as directed
 15 within the required time limits.
 There have been reports in which failure to use aseptic
 16 technique when handling DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was associated with microbial
 17 contamination of the product and with fever, infection/sepsis, other life-threatening
 18 illness, and/or death.
 19  There have been reports, in the literature and other public sources, of the
 20 transmission of bloodborne pathogens (such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV) from
 21 unsafe injection practices, and use of propofol vials intended for single use on multiple
 22 persons.
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion vials are never to be accessed more than once
 23 or used on more than one person.
 1
  Reference ID: 3520825
        1 (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Handling
 2 Procedures).
 3 DESCRIPTION:
 4 DIPRIVAN (Propofol) Injectable Emulsion, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic emulsion
 5 containing 10 mg/mL of propofol suitable for intravenous administration.
 Propofol is
 6 chemically described as 2,6 diisopropylphenol.
 The structural formula is:
 7
  8
 9 C12H18O   M.W.  178.27
 10  11 Propofol is slightly soluble in water and, thus, is formulated in a white, oil-in-water
 12 emulsion.
 The pKa is 11.
 The octanol/water partition coefficient for propofol is 6761:1 at a
 13 pH of 6 to 8.5.
In addition to the active component, propofol, the formulation also contains  14 soybean oil (100 mg/mL), glycerol (22.5 mg/mL), egg lecithin (12 mg/mL); and disodium
  15 edetate (0.005%); with sodium hydroxide to adjust pH.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion,
 16 USP is isotonic and has a pH of 7 to 8.5.
 17 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
 18 General
 19 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is an intravenous sedative-hypnotic agent for use in the
 20 induction and maintenance of anesthesia or sedation.
 Intravenous injection of a therapeutic
 2
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 dose of propofol induces hypnosis, with minimal excitation, usually within 40 seconds from
  2 the start of injection (the time for one arm-brain circulation).
 As with other rapidly acting
 3 intravenous anesthetic agents, the half-time of the blood-brain equilibration is approximately
 4 1 to 3 minutes, accounting for the rate of induction of anesthesia.
 The mechanism of action,
 5 like all general anesthetics, is poorly understood.
 However, propofol is thought to produce its
 6 sedative/anesthetic effects by the positive modulation of the inhibitory function of the
 7 neurotransmitter GABA through the ligand-gated GABAA receptors.
  8 Pharmacodynamics
 9 Pharmacodynamic properties of propofol are dependent upon the therapeutic blood propofol
 10 concentrations.
Steady-state propofol blood concentrations are generally proportional to
 11 infusion rates.
Undesirable side effects, such as cardiorespiratory depression, are likely to
 12 occur at higher blood concentrations which result from bolus dosing or rapid increases in
 13 infusion rates.
An adequate interval (3 to 5 minutes) must be allowed between dose
 14 adjustments in order to assess clinical effects.
  15 The hemodynamic effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion during induction of
 16 anesthesia vary.
If spontaneous ventilation is maintained, the major cardiovascular effect is
 17 arterial hypotension (sometimes greater than a 30% decrease) with little or no change in heart
 18 rate and no appreciable decrease in cardiac output.
 If ventilation is assisted or controlled
 19 (positive pressure ventilation), there is an increase in the incidence and the degree of
 20 depression of cardiac output.
 Addition of an opioid, used as a premedicant, further decreases
 21 cardiac output and respiratory drive.
 22 If anesthesia is continued by infusion of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, the
 23 stimulation of endotracheal intubation and surgery may return arterial pressure towards
 3
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 normal.
 However, cardiac output may remain depressed.
 Comparative clinical studies have
 2 shown that the hemodynamic effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion during induction of
 3 anesthesia are generally more pronounced than with other intravenous (IV) induction agents.
 4 Induction of anesthesia with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is frequently associated
 5 with apnea in both adults and pediatric patients.
 In adult patients who received DIPRIVAN
 6 Injectable Emulsion (2 to 2.5 mg/kg), apnea lasted less than 30 seconds in 7% of patients, 30
 7 to 60 seconds in 24% of patients, and more than 60 seconds in 12% of patients.
 In pediatric
 8 patients from birth through 16 years of age assessable for apnea who received bolus doses of
 9 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion (1 to 3.6 mg/kg), apnea lasted less than 30 seconds in 12% of
 10 patients, 30 to 60 seconds in 10% of patients, and more than 60 seconds in 5% of patients.
 11 During maintenance of general anesthesia, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion causes a
 12 decrease in spontaneous minute ventilation usually associated with an increase in carbon
 13 dioxide tension which may be marked depending upon the rate of administration and
 14 concurrent use of other medications (e.g., opioids, sedatives, etc.).
 15 During monitored anesthesia care (MAC) sedation, attention must be given to the
 16 cardiorespiratory effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 Hypotension, oxyhemoglobin
 17 desaturation, apnea, and airway obstruction can occur, especially following a rapid bolus of
 18 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 During initiation of MAC sedation, slow infusion or slow
 19 injection techniques are preferable over rapid bolus administration.
 During maintenance of
 20 MAC sedation, a variable rate infusion is preferable over intermittent bolus administration in
 21 order to minimize undesirable cardiorespiratory effects.
 In the elderly, debilitated, or ASA
22 PS III or IV patients, rapid (single or repeated) bolus dose administration should not be used
 23 for MAC sedation (see WARNINGS).
 4
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Clinical and preclinical studies suggest that DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is rarely
 2 associated with elevation of plasma histamine levels.
  3 Preliminary findings in patients with normal intraocular pressure indicate that
 4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion produces a decrease in intraocular pressure which may be
 5 associated with a concomitant decrease in systemic vascular resistance.
  6 Clinical studies indicate that DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion when used in
 7 combination with hypocarbia increases cerebrovascular resistance and decreases cerebral
 8 blood flow, cerebral metabolic oxygen consumption, and intracranial pressure.
 DIPRIVAN
 9 Injectable Emulsion does not affect cerebrovascular reactivity to changes in arterial carbon
 10 dioxide tension (see Clinical Trials, Neuroanesthesia).
  11 Clinical studies indicate that DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion does not suppress the
 12 adrenal response to ACTH.
 13 Animal studies and limited experience in susceptible patients have not indicated any
 14 propensity of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion to induce malignant hyperthermia.
 15 Hemosiderin deposits have been observed in the livers of dogs receiving DIPRIVAN
 16 Injectable Emulsion containing 0.005% disodium edetate over a four-week period; the clinical
 17 significance of this is unknown.
 18 Pharmacokinetics
 19 The pharmacokinetics of propofol are well described by a three compartment linear model
 20 with compartments representing the plasma, rapidly equilibrating tissues, and slowly
 21 equilibrating tissues.
 22 Following an IV bolus dose, there is rapid equilibration between the plasma and the
 23 brain, accounting for the rapid onset of anesthesia.
 Plasma levels initially decline rapidly as a
 5
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 result of both distribution and metabolic clearance.
 Distribution accounts for about half of
 2 this decline following a bolus of propofol.
 However, distribution is not constant over time,
 3 but decreases as body tissues equilibrate with plasma and become saturated.
 The rate at
 4 which equilibration occurs is a function of the rate and duration of the infusion.
 When
  5 equilibration occurs there is no longer a net transfer of propofol between tissues and plasma.
 6 Discontinuation of the recommended doses of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion after
 7 the maintenance of anesthesia for approximately one hour, or for sedation in the ICU for one
 8 day, results in a prompt decrease in blood propofol concentrations and rapid awakening.
  9 Longer infusions (10 days of ICU sedation) result in accumulation of significant tissue stores
 10 of propofol, such that the reduction in circulating propofol is slowed and the time to
 11 awakening is increased.
  12 By daily titration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion dosage to achieve only the
 13 minimum effective therapeutic concentration, rapid awakening within 10 to 15 minutes can
 14 occur even after long-term administration.
 If, however, higher than necessary infusion levels
 15 have been maintained for a long time, propofol redistribution from fat and muscle to the
 16 plasma can be significant and slow recovery.
 17 The figure below illustrates the fall of plasma propofol levels following infusions of
 18 various durations to provide ICU sedation.
 6
  Reference ID: 3520825
    1
 2
  3 The large contribution of distribution (about 50%) to the fall of propofol plasma levels
 4 following brief infusions means that after very long infusions a reduction in the infusion rate
 5 is appropriate by as much as half the initial infusion rate in order to maintain a constant
 6 plasma level.
 Therefore, failure to reduce the infusion rate in patients receiving DIPRIVAN
 7 Injectable Emulsion for extended periods may result in excessively high blood concentrations
 8 of the drug.
Thus, titration to clinical response and daily evaluation of sedation levels are
 9 important during use of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion infusion for ICU sedation.
 10 Adults
 11 Propofol clearance ranges from 23 to 50 mL/kg/min (1.6 to 3.4 L/min in 70 kg adults).
 It is
 12 chiefly eliminated by hepatic conjugation to inactive metabolites which are excreted by the
 13 kidney.
A glucuronide conjugate accounts for about 50% of the administered dose.
 Propofol
 14 has a steady-state volume of distribution (10-day infusion) approaching 60 L/kg in healthy
 15 adults.
A difference in pharmacokinetics due to gender has not been observed.
 The terminal
 16 half-life of propofol after a 10-day infusion is 1 to 3 days.
 17
  18
  7
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Geriatrics
  2 With increasing patient age, the dose of propofol needed to achieve a defined anesthetic end
 3 point (dose-requirement) decreases.
 This does not appear to be an age-related change in
 4 pharmacodynamics or brain sensitivity, as measured by EEG burst suppression.
 With
 5 increasing patient age, pharmacokinetic changes are such that, for a given IV bolus dose,
 6 higher peak plasma concentrations occur, which can explain the decreased dose requirement.
  7 These higher peak plasma concentrations in the elderly can predispose patients to
 8 cardiorespiratory effects including hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction, and/or arterial
 9 oxygen desaturation.
The higher plasma levels reflect an age-related decrease in volume of
 10 distribution and intercompartmental clearance.
 Lower doses are therefore recommended for
 11 initiation and maintenance of sedation and anesthesia in elderly patients (see DOSAGE AND
 12 ADMINISTRATION).
 13 Pediatrics
  14 The pharmacokinetics of propofol were studied in children between 3 and 12 years of age
 15 who received DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for periods of approximately 1 to 2 hours.
 The
 16 observed distribution and clearance of propofol in these children were similar to adults.
 17 Organ Failure
 18 The pharmacokinetics of propofol do not appear to be different in people with chronic hepatic
 19 cirrhosis or chronic renal impairment compared to adults with normal hepatic and renal
 20 function.
The effects of acute hepatic or renal failure on the pharmacokinetics of propofol
 21 have not been studied.
 22
  23
  8
  Reference ID: 3520825
                1 Clinical Trials
  2 Anesthesia and Monitored Anesthesia Care (MAC) Sedation
  3 Pediatric Anesthesia
  4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was studied in clinical trials which included cardiac surgical
 5 patients.
Most patients were 3 years of age or older.
 The majority of the patients were
 6 healthy ASA-PS I or II patients.
 The range of doses in these studies are described in Tables 1
 7 and 2.
 8
  9 TABLE 1.
PEDIATRIC INDUCTION OF ANESTHESIA
 Age Range Induction Dose Median (range)
 Injection Duration Median (range)
 Birth through 16 years 2.5 mg/kg (1 to 3.6)
 20 sec.
(6 to 45)
 10 11 12 TABLE 2.
PEDIATRIC MAINTENANCE OF ANESTHESIA
 Age Range Maintenance Dosage (mcg/kg/min)
 Duration (minutes)
 2 months to 2 years 199 (82 to 394) 65 (12 to 282)
 2 to 12 years 188 (12 to 1041) 69 (23 to 374)
 12 through 16 years 161 (84 to 359) 69 (26 to 251) 13  14 Neuroanesthesia
  15 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was studied in patients undergoing craniotomy for
 16 supratentorial tumors in two clinical trials.
 The mean lesion size (anterior/posterior x lateral)
 17 was 31 mm x 32 mm in one trial and 55 mm x 42 mm in the other trial respectively.
  18 Anesthesia was induced with a median DIPRIVAN dose of 1.4 mg/kg (range: 0.9 to
  9
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 6.9 mg/kg) and maintained with a median maintenance DIPRIVAN dose of 146 mcg/kg/min
 2 (range: 68 to 425 mcg/kg/min).
 The median duration of the DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 3 maintenance infusion was 285 minutes (range: 48 to 622 minutes).
 4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was administered by infusion in a controlled clinical
 5 trial to evaluate its effect on cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP).
 The mean arterial pressure
 6 was maintained relatively constant over 25 minutes with a change from baseline of -4% 
 7 17% (mean  SD).
 The change in CSFP was -46%  14%.
 As CSFP is an indirect measure
 8 of intracranial pressure (ICP), DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, when given by infusion or
 9 slow bolus in combination with hypocarbia, is capable of decreasing ICP independent of
 10 changes in arterial pressure.
 11 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Sedation
 12 Adult Patients
 13 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was compared to benzodiazepines and opioids in clinical
 14 trials involving ICU patients.
Of these, 302 received DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion and
 15 comprise the overall safety database for ICU sedation.
   16 Across all clinical studies, the mean infusion maintenance rate for all DIPRIVAN
 17 Injectable Emulsion patients was 27  21 mcg/kg/min.
 The maintenance infusion rates
 18 required to maintain adequate sedation ranged from 2.8 mcg/kg/min to 130 mcg/kg/min.
 The
 19 infusion rate was lower in patients over 55 years of age (approximately 20 mcg/kg/min)
 20 compared to patients under 55 years of age (approximately 38 mcg/kg/min).
 Although there
 21 are reports of reduced analgesic requirements, most patients received opioids for analgesia
 22 during maintenance of ICU sedation.
 In these studies, morphine or fentanyl was used as
 23 needed for analgesia.
Some patients also received benzodiazepines and/or neuromuscular
 10
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 blocking agents.
During long-term maintenance of sedation, some ICU patients were
 2 awakened once or twice every 24 hours for assessment of neurologic or respiratory function.
  3 In Medical and Postsurgical ICU studies comparing DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 4 to benzodiazepine infusion or bolus, there were no apparent differences in maintenance of
 5 adequate sedation, mean arterial pressure, or laboratory findings.
 Like the comparators,
 6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion reduced blood cortisol during sedation while maintaining
 7 responsivity to challenges with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH).
 Case reports from the
 8 published literature generally reflect that DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been used
 9 safely in patients with a history of porphyria or malignant hyperthermia.
 10 In hemodynamically stable head trauma patients ranging in age from 19 to 43 years,
 11 adequate sedation was maintained with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion or morphine.
 There
 12 were no apparent differences in adequacy of sedation, intracranial pressure, cerebral perfusion
 13 pressure, or neurologic recovery between the treatment groups.
 In literature reports of
 14 severely head injured patients in Neurosurgical ICUs, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 15 infusion and hyperventilation, both with and without diuretics, controlled intracranial pressure
 16 while maintaining cerebral perfusion pressure.
 In some patients, bolus doses resulted in
 17 decreased blood pressure and compromised cerebral perfusion pressure.
  18 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was found to be effective in status epilepticus which
 19 was refractory to the standard anticonvulsant therapies.
 For these patients, as well as for
 20 ARDS/respiratory failure and tetanus patients, sedation maintenance dosages were generally
 21 higher than those for other critically ill patient populations.
  22
  23
  11
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Pediatric Patients
  2 A single, randomized, controlled, clinical trial that evaluated the safety and effectiveness of
  3 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion versus standard sedative agents (SSA) was conducted on 327
 4 pediatric ICU patients.
Patients were randomized to receive either DIPRIVAN Injectable
 5 Emulsion 2%, (113 patients), DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 1%, (109 patients), or an SSA
 6 (eg, lorazepam, chloral hydrate, fentanyl, ketamine, morphine, or phenobarbital).
 DIPRIVAN
 7 Injectable Emulsion therapy was initiated at an infusion rate of 5.5 mg/kg/hr and titrated as
 8 needed to maintain sedation at a standardized level.
 The results of the study showed an
 9 increase in the number of deaths in patients treated with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion as
 10 compared to SSAs.
 Of the 25 patients who died during the trial or within the 28-day follow
11 up period: 12 (11% were) in the DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 2% treatment group, 9 (8%
 12 were) in the DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 1% treatment group, and 4% were (4%) in the
 13 SSA treatment group.
 The differences in mortality rate between the groups were not
 14 statistically significant.
Review of the deaths failed to reveal a correlation with underlying
 15 disease status or a correlation to the drug or a definitive pattern to the causes of death.
  16 Cardiac Anesthesia
  17 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was evaluated in clinical trials involving patients undergoing
 18 coronary artery bypass graft (CABG).
 19 In post-CABG (coronary artery bypass graft) patients, the maintenance rate of
  20 propofol administration was usually low (median 11 mcg/kg/min) due to the intraoperative
 21 administration of high opioid doses.
 Patients receiving DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 22 required 35% less nitroprusside than midazolam patients.
 During initiation of sedation in
 23 post-CABG patients, a 15% to 20% decrease in blood pressure was seen in the first 60
 12
  Reference ID: 3520825
       1 minutes.
 It was not possible to determine cardiovascular effects in patients with severely
 2 compromised ventricular function.
   3 INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
  4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is an IV sedative-hypnotic agent that can be used as
 5 described in the table below.
 6  7 Table 3.
Indications for DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
  Indication Approved Patient Population
 Initiation and maintenance of Monitored Anesthesia Care (MAC) sedation
 Adults only
 Combined sedation and regional anesthesia Adults only (see PRECAUTIONS)
 Induction of General Anesthesia Patients &#x2265; 3 years of age Maintenance of General Anesthesia Patients &#x2265; 2 months of age Intensive Care Unit (ICU) sedation of intubated, mechanically ventilated patients
 Adults only
 8  9 Safety, effectiveness and dosing guidelines for DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion have
 10 not been established for MAC Sedation in the pediatric population; therefore, it is not
 11 recommended for this use (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use).
 12 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for induction of anesthesia
 13 below the age of 3 years or for maintenance of anesthesia below the age of 2 months because
 14 its safety and effectiveness have not been established in those populations.
 15 In the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion can be
 16 administered to intubated, mechanically ventilated adult patients to provide continuous
 17 sedation and control of stress responses only by persons skilled in the medical management of
 18 critically ill patients and trained in cardiovascular resuscitation and airway management.
 13
  Reference ID: 3520825
 1 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not indicated for use in Pediatric ICU sedation
 2 since the safety of this regimen has not been established (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric
 3 Use).
 4  DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for obstetrics, including
 5 Cesarean section deliveries.
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion crosses the placenta, and as
 6 with other general anesthetic agents, the administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 7 may be associated with neonatal depression (see PRECAUTIONS).
 8 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for use in nursing mothers
 9 because propofol has been reported to be excreted in human milk, and the effects of oral
 10 absorption of small amounts of propofol are not known (see PRECAUTIONS).
 11 CONTRAINDICATIONS:
 12 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity
 13 to propofol or any of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion components.
 14 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is contraindicated in patients with allergies to eggs,
 15 egg products, soybeans or soy products.
 16 WARNINGS:
 17 Use of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been associated with both fatal and life
18 threatening anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions.
   19 For general anesthesia or monitored anesthesia care (MAC) sedation, DIPRIVAN
 20 Injectable Emulsion should be administered only by persons trained in the administration of
 21 general anesthesia and not involved in the conduct of the surgical/diagnostic procedure.
  22 Sedated patients should be continuously monitored, and facilities for maintenance of a patent
 23 airway, providing artificial ventilation, administering supplemental oxygen, and instituting
  14
 Reference ID: 3520825
       1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23 24
 cardiovascular resuscitation must be immediately available.
 Patients should be continuously
 monitored for early signs of hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction, and/or oxygen
 desaturation.
 These cardiorespiratory effects are more likely to occur following rapid bolus
 administration, especially in the elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients.
 For sedation of intubated, mechanically ventilated patients in the Intensive Care Unit
 (ICU), DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be administered only by persons skilled in the
 management of critically ill patients and trained in cardiovascular resuscitation and airway
 management.
 Use of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion infusions for both adult and pediatric
 ICU sedation has been associated with a constellation of metabolic derangements and
 organ system failures, referred to as Propofol Infusion Syndrome, that have resulted in
 death.
The syndrome is characterized by severe metabolic acidosis, hyperkalemia,
 lipemia, rhabdomyolysis, hepatomegaly, renal failure, ECG changes* and/or cardiac
 failure.
The following appear to be major risk factors for the development of these
 events: decreased oxygen delivery to tissues; serious neurological injury and/or sepsis;
 high dosages of one or more of the following pharmacological agents: vasoconstrictors,
 steroids, inotropes and/or prolonged, high-dose infusions of propofol (&gt; 5 mg/kg/h for &gt;
 48h).
The syndrome has also been reported following large-dose, short-term infusions
 during surgical anesthesia.
 In the setting of prolonged need for sedation, increasing
 propofol dose requirements to maintain a constant level of sedation, or onset of
 metabolic acidosis during administration of a propofol infusion, consideration should be
 given to using alternative means of sedation.
 *Coved ST segment elevation (similar to ECG changes of the Brugada syndrome).
 15
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Abrupt discontinuation of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion prior to weaning or for
 2 daily evaluation of sedation levels should be avoided.
 This may result in rapid awakening
 3 with associated anxiety, agitation, and resistance to mechanical ventilation.
 Infusions of
 4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be adjusted to maintain a light level of sedation
 5 through the weaning process or evaluation of sedation level (see PRECAUTIONS).
  6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should not be coadministered through the same IV
 7 catheter with blood or plasma because compatibility has not been established.
 In vitro tests
 8 have shown that aggregates of the globular component of the emulsion vehicle have occurred
 9 with blood/plasma/serum from humans and animals.
 The clinical significance of these
 10 findings is not known.
 11 There have been reports in which failure to use aseptic technique when handling
 12 Diprivan Injectable Emulsion was associated with microbial contamination of the
 13 product and with fever, infection, sepsis, other life-threatening illness, and death.
 Do
 14 not use if contamination is suspected.
 Discard unused drug product as directed within
 15 the required time limits (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Handling
 16 Procedures).
 17 There have been reports, in the literature and other public sources, of the
 18 transmission of bloodborne pathogens (such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV) from
 19 unsafe injection practices, and use of propofol vials intended for single use on multiple
 20 persons.
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion vial is never to be accessed more than once or
 21 used on more than one person.
 16
  Reference ID: 3520825
     1 PRECAUTIONS:
 2 General
 3 Adult and Pediatric Patients
 4 A lower induction dose and a slower maintenance rate of administration should be used in
 5 elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients (see DOSAGE AND
 6 ADMINISTRATION).
Patients should be continuously monitored for early signs of
 7 hypotension and/or bradycardia.
Apnea requiring ventilatory support often occurs during
 8 induction and may persist for more than 60 seconds.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion use
 9 requires caution when administered to patients with disorders of lipid metabolism such as
 10 primary hyperlipoproteinemia, diabetic hyperlipemia, and pancreatitis.
 11 Very rarely the use of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion may be associated with the
 12 development of a period of postoperative unconsciousness which may be accompanied by an
 13 increase in muscle tone.
 This may or may not be preceded by a brief period of wakefulness.
  14 Recovery is spontaneous.
 15 When DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is administered to an epileptic patient, there is
 16 a risk of seizure during the recovery phase.
 17 Attention should be paid to minimize pain on administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 18 Emulsion.
 Transient local pain can be minimized if the larger veins of the forearm or
 19 antecubital fossa are used.
 Pain during intravenous injection may also be reduced by prior
 20 injection of IV lidocaine (1 mL of a 1% solution).
 Pain on injection occurred frequently in
 21 pediatric patients (45%) when a small vein of the hand was utilized without lidocaine
 22 pretreatment.
 With lidocaine pretreatment or when antecubital veins were utilized, pain was
 23 minimal (incidence less than 10%) and well-tolerated.
 There have been reports in the
 17
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 literature indicating that the addition of lidocaine to DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion in
 2 quantities greater than 20 mg lidocaine/200 mg DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion results in
 3 instability of the emulsion which is associated with increases in globule sizes over time and
 4 (in rat studies) a reduction in anesthetic potency.
 Therefore, it is recommended that lidocaine
 5 be administered prior to DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration or that it be added to
 6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion immediately before administration and in quantities not
 7 exceeding 20 mg lidocaine/200 mg DIPRIVAN.
 8 Venous sequelae, i.e., phlebitis or thrombosis, have been reported rarely (&lt;1%).
 In
 9 two clinical studies using dedicated intravenous catheters, no instances of venous sequelae
 10 were observed up to 14 days following induction.
 11 Intra-arterial injection in animals did not induce local tissue effects.
 Accidental intra 12 arterial injection has been reported in patients, and, other than pain, there were no major
 13 sequelae.  14 Intentional injection into subcutaneous or perivascular tissues of animals caused  15 minimal tissue reaction.
 During the post-marketing period, there have been rare reports of
 16 local pain, swelling, blisters, and/or tissue necrosis following accidental extravasation of
 17 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 18 Perioperative myoclonia, rarely including convulsions and opisthotonos, has occurred
 19 in association with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration.
 20 Clinical features of anaphylaxis, including angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema, and
 21 hypotension, occur rarely following DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration.
 22 There have been rare reports of pulmonary edema in temporal relationship to the
 23 administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, although a causal relationship is unknown.
 18
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Rarely, cases of unexplained postoperative pancreatitis (requiring hospital admission)
 2 have been reported after anesthesia in which DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was one of the
 3 induction agents used.
Due to a variety of confounding factors in these cases, including
 4 concomitant medications, a causal relationship to DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is unclear.
 5 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has no vagolytic activity.
 Reports of bradycardia,
 6 asystole, and rarely, cardiac arrest have been associated with DIPRIVAN Injectable
 7 Emulsion.
 Pediatric patients are susceptible to this effect, particularly when fentanyl is given
 8 concomitantly.
 The intravenous administration of anticholinergic agents (e.g., atropine or
 9 glycopyrrolate) should be considered to modify potential increases in vagal tone due to
 10 concomitant agents (e.g., succinylcholine) or surgical stimuli.
  11 Intensive Care Unit Sedation
  12 Adult Patients
 13 (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Handling Procedures.)  The
 14 administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be initiated as a continuous infusion
 15 and changes in the rate of administration made slowly (&gt;5 min) in order to minimize
 16 hypotension and avoid acute overdosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 17 Patients should be monitored for early signs of significant hypotension and/or
 18 cardiovascular depression, which may be profound.
 These effects are responsive to
 19 discontinuation of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, IV fluid administration, and/or
 20 vasopressor therapy.
 In the elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients, rapid (single or
 21 repeated) bolus administration should not be used during sedation in order to minimize
  22 undesirable cardiorespiratory depression, including hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction,
 23 and oxygen desaturation.
 19
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 As with other sedative medications, there is wide interpatient variability in
 2 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion dosage requirements, and these requirements may change
 3 with time.
 4 Failure to reduce the infusion rate in patients receiving DIPRIVAN Injectable
 5 Emulsion for extended periods may result in excessively high blood concentrations of the
 6 drug.
Thus, titration to clinical response and daily evaluation of sedation levels are important
 7 during use of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion infusion for ICU sedation, especially when it is
 8 used for long durations.
 9 Opioids and paralytic agents should be discontinued and respiratory function
 10 optimized prior to weaning patients from mechanical ventilation.
 Infusions of DIPRIVAN
 11 Injectable Emulsion should be adjusted to maintain a light level of sedation prior to weaning
 12 patients from mechanical ventilatory support.
 Throughout the weaning process, this level of
 13 sedation may be maintained in the absence of respiratory depression.
 Because of the rapid
 14 clearance of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, abrupt discontinuation of a patient's infusion
 15 may result in rapid awakening with associated anxiety, agitation, and resistance to mechanical
 16 ventilation, making weaning from mechanical ventilation difficult.
It is therefore
 17 recommended that administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion be continued in order to
 18 maintain a light level of sedation throughout the weaning process until 10 to 15 minutes prior
 19 to extubation, at which time the infusion can be discontinued.
 20 Since DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is formulated in an oil-in-water emulsion,
 21 elevations in serum triglycerides may occur when DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is
 22 administered for extended periods of time.
 Patients at risk of hyperlipidemia should be
 23 monitored for increases in serum triglycerides or serum turbidity.
 Administration of
 20
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be adjusted if fat is being inadequately cleared from
  2 the body.
A reduction in the quantity of concurrently administered lipids is indicated to
 3 compensate for the amount of lipid infused as part of the DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 4 formulation; 1 mL of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion contains approximately 0.1 g of fat
 5 (1.1 kcal).
 6 EDTA is a strong chelator of trace metals - including zinc.
 Although with
 7 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion there are no reports of decreased zinc levels or zinc
 8 deficiency-related adverse events, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should not be infused for
 9 longer than 5 days without providing a drug holiday to safely replace estimated or measured
 10 urine zinc losses.
 11 In clinical trials mean urinary zinc loss was approximately 2.5 to 3 mg/day in adult
 12 patients and 1.5 to 2 mg/day in pediatric patients.
  13 In patients who are predisposed to zinc deficiency, such as those with burns, diarrhea,
 14 and/or major sepsis, the need for supplemental zinc should be considered during prolonged
 15 therapy with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 16 At high doses (2 to 3 grams per day), EDTA has been reported, on rare occasions, to
 17 be toxic to the renal tubules.
Studies to date in patients with normal or impaired renal
 18 function have not shown any alteration in renal function with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 19 containing 0.005% disodium edetate.
 In patients at risk for renal impairment, urinalysis and
 20 urine sediment should be checked before initiation of sedation and then be monitored on
 21 alternate days during sedation.
 22 The long-term administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion to patients with
 23 renal failure and/or hepatic insufficiency has not been evaluated.
 21
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Neurosurgical Anesthesia
 2 When DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is used in patients with increased intracranial pressure
 3 or impaired cerebral circulation, significant decreases in mean arterial pressure should be
 4 avoided because of the resultant decreases in cerebral perfusion pressure.
 To avoid
 5 significant hypotension and decreases in cerebral perfusion pressure, an infusion or slow
 6 bolus of approximately 20 mg every 10 seconds should be utilized instead of rapid, more
 7 frequent, and/or larger boluses of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 Slower induction, titrated
 8 to clinical responses, will generally result in reduced induction dosage requirements (1 to
  9 2 mg/kg).
 When increased ICP is suspected, hyperventilation and hypocarbia should
 10 accompany the administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion (see DOSAGE AND
 11 ADMINISTRATION).
 12 Cardiac Anesthesia
  13 Slower rates of administration should be utilized in premedicated patients, geriatric patients,
 14 patients with recent fluid shifts, and patients who are hemodynamically unstable.
 Fluid
 15 deficits should be corrected prior to administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 In
 16 those patients where additional fluid therapy may be contraindicated, other measures, e.g.,
 17 elevation of lower extremities, or use of pressor agents, may be useful to offset the
 18 hypotension which is associated with the induction of anesthesia with DIPRIVAN Injectable
 19 Emulsion.
 20 Information for Patients
 21 Patients should be advised that performance of activities requiring mental alertness, such as
 22 operating a motor vehicle, or hazardous machinery or signing legal documents may be
 23 impaired for some time after general anesthesia or sedation.
   22
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Drug Interactions
  2 The induction dose requirements of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion may be reduced in
 3 patients with intramuscular or intravenous premedication, particularly with narcotics (e.g.,
 4 morphine, meperidine, and fentanyl, etc.) and combinations of opioids and sedatives (e.g.,
 5 benzodiazepines, barbiturates, chloral hydrate, droperidol, etc.).
 These agents may increase
 6 the anesthetic or sedative effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion and may also result in
 7 more pronounced decreases in systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures and cardiac
 8 output.
 9 During maintenance of anesthesia or sedation, the rate of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 10 Emulsion administration should be adjusted according to the desired level of anesthesia or
 11 sedation and may be reduced in the presence of supplemental analgesic agents (e.g., nitrous
 12 oxide or opioids).
The concurrent administration of potent inhalational agents (e.g.,
 13 isoflurane, enflurane, and halothane) during maintenance with DIPRIVAN Injectable
 14 Emulsion has not been extensively evaluated.
 These inhalational agents can also be expected
 15 to increase the anesthetic or sedative and cardiorespiratory effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 16 Emulsion.
 17 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion does not cause a clinically significant change in
 18 onset, intensity or duration of action of the commonly used neuromuscular blocking agents
 19 (e.g., succinylcholine and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants).
   20 No significant adverse interactions with commonly used premedications or drugs used
 21 during anesthesia or sedation (including a range of muscle relaxants, inhalational agents,
 22 analgesic agents, and local anesthetic agents) have been observed in adults.
 In pediatric
 23
  Reference ID: 3520825
           1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 patients, administration of fentanyl concomitantly with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion may
 result in serious bradycardia.
 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
 Carcinogenesis
 Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential
 of propofol.
 Mutagenesis
 Propofol was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames test) using
 Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, TA1537 and TA1538.
Propofol was
 not mutagenic in either the gene mutation/gene conversion test using Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae, or in vitro cytogenetic studies in Chinese hamsters.
 In the in vivo mouse
 micronucleus assay with Chinese Hamsters propofol administration did not produce
 chromosome aberrations.
 Impairment of Fertility
 Female Wistar rats were administered either 0, 10, or 15 mg/kg/day propofol intravenously
 from 2 weeks before pregnancy to day 7 of gestation did not show impaired fertility.
 Male
 fertility in rats was not affected in a dominant lethal study at intravenous doses up to
  15 mg/kg/day for 5 days.
 Pregnancy
 Teratogenic Effects
 Pregnancy Category B
 Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at intravenous doses of 15  mg/kg/day (approximately equivalent to the recommended human induction dose on a mg/m2
 24
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 basis) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to propofol.
  2 Propofol, however, has been shown to cause maternal deaths in rats and rabbits and decreased
 3 pup survival during the lactating period in dams treated with 15 mg/kg/day (approximately
 4 equivalent to the recommended human induction dose on a mg/m2 basis).
The
 5 pharmacological activity (anesthesia) of the drug on the mother is probably responsible for the
 6 adverse effects seen in the offspring.
There are, however, no adequate and well-controlled
 7 studies in pregnant women.
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of
 8 human responses, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be used during pregnancy only if
 9 clearly needed.
 10 Labor and Delivery
 11 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for obstetrics, including cesarean
 12 section deliveries.
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion crosses the placenta, and as with other
 13 general anesthetic agents, the administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion may be
 14 associated with neonatal depression.
 15 Nursing Mothers
 16 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for use in nursing mothers because
 17 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been reported to be excreted in human milk and the
 18 effects of oral absorption of small amounts of propofol are not known.
 19 Pediatric Use
 20 The safety and effectiveness of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion have been established for
 21 induction of anesthesia in pediatric patients aged 3 years and older and for the maintenance of
 22 anesthesia aged 2 months and older.
 25
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not recommended for the induction of anesthesia in
 2 patients younger than 3 years of age and for the maintenance of anesthesia in patients younger
 3 than 2 months of age as safety and effectiveness have not been established.
 4 In pediatric patients, administration of fentanyl concomitantly with DIPRIVAN
 5 Injectable Emulsion may result in serious bradycardia (see PRECAUTIONS, General).
  6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not indicated for use in pediatric patients for ICU
 7 sedation or for MAC sedation for surgical, nonsurgical or diagnostic procedures as safety and
 8 effectiveness have not been established.
 9 There have been anecdotal reports of serious adverse events and death in pediatric
 10 patients with upper respiratory tract infections receiving DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for
 11 ICU sedation.
 12 In one multicenter clinical trial of ICU sedation in critically ill pediatric patients that
 13 excluded patients with upper respiratory tract infections, the incidence of mortality observed
 14 in patients who received DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion (n=222) was 9%, while that for
 15 patients who received standard sedative agents (n=105) was 4%.
 While causality has not been
 16 established, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is not indicated for sedation in pediatric patients
 17 until further studies have been performed to document its safety in that population (see
  18 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Pediatric Patients and DOSAGE
 19 AND ADMINISTRATION).
  20 In pediatric patients, abrupt discontinuation of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 21 following prolonged infusion may result in flushing of the hands and feet, agitation,
 22 tremulousness and hyperirritability.
 Increased incidences of bradycardia (5%), agitation
 23 (4%), and jitteriness (9%) have also been observed.
 26
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Geriatric Use
 2 The effect of age on induction dose requirements for propofol was assessed in an open-label
 3 study involving 211 unpremedicated patients with approximately 30 patients in each decade
 4 between the ages of 16 and 80.
The average dose to induce anesthesia was calculated for
 5 patients up to 54 years of age and for patients 55 years of age or older.
 The average dose to
 6 induce anesthesia in patients up to 54 years of age was 1.99 mg/kg and in patients above 54 it
 7 was 1.66 mg/kg.
 Subsequent clinical studies have demonstrated lower dosing requirements
 8 for subjects greater than 60 years of age.
 9 A lower induction dose and a slower maintenance rate of administration of
 10 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be used in elderly patients.
 In this group of patients,
 11 rapid (single or repeated) bolus administration should not be used in order to minimize
  12 undesirable cardiorespiratory depression including hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction,
 13 and/or oxygen desaturation.
All dosing should be titrated according to patient condition and
 14 response (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Elderly, Debilitated or ASA-PS III
 15 or IV Patients and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Geriatrics).
  16 ADVERSE REACTIONS:
 17 General
 18 Adverse event information is derived from controlled clinical trials and worldwide marketing
 19 experience.
In the description below, rates of the more common events represent
 20 US/Canadian clinical study results.
 Less frequent events are also derived from publications
 21 and marketing experience in over 8 million patients; there are insufficient data to support an
 22 accurate estimate of their incidence rates.
 These studies were conducted using a variety of
 27
  Reference ID: 3520825
       1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 premedicants, varying lengths of surgical/diagnostic procedures, and various other
 anesthetic/sedative agents.
Most adverse events were mild and transient.
 Anesthesia and MAC Sedation in Adults
 The following estimates of adverse events for DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion include data
 from clinical trials in general anesthesia/MAC sedation (N=2889 adult patients).
 The adverse
 events listed below as probably causally related are those events in which the actual incidence
 rate in patients treated with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was greater than the comparator
 incidence rate in these trials.
 Therefore, incidence rates for anesthesia and MAC sedation in
 adults generally represent estimates of the percentage of clinical trial patients which appeared
 to have probable causal relationship.
 The adverse experience profile from reports of 150 patients in the MAC sedation
 clinical trials is similar to the profile established with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion during
 anesthesia (see below).
During MAC sedation clinical trials, significant respiratory events
 included cough, upper airway obstruction, apnea, hypoventilation, and dyspnea.
  Anesthesia in Pediatric Patients
 Generally the adverse experience profile from reports of 506 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 pediatric patients from 6 days through 16 years of age in the US/Canadian anesthesia clinical
 trials is similar to the profile established with DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion during
 anesthesia in adults (see Pediatric percentages [Peds %] below).
 Although not reported as an
 adverse event in clinical trials, apnea is frequently observed in pediatric patients.
 ICU Sedation in Adults
 The following estimates of adverse events include data from clinical trials in ICU sedation
 (N=159 adult patients).
Probably related incidence rates for ICU sedation were determined by
 28
  Reference ID: 3520825
                                                  8
 1 individual case report form review.
 Probable causality was based upon an apparent dose
 2 response relationship and/or positive responses to rechallenge.
 In many instances the
 3 presence of concomitant disease and concomitant therapy made the causal relationship
 4 unknown.
Therefore, incidence rates for ICU sedation generally represent estimates of the
 5 percentage of clinical trial patients which appeared to have a probable causal relationship.
 6  7 Incidence greater than 1% - Probably Causally Related
  Cardiovascular:
 Anesthesia/MAC Sedation ICU Sedation
 Bradycardia Bradycardia  Arrhythmia [Peds: 1.2%]
 Tachycardia Nodal [Peds: 1.6%] Hypotension* [Peds: 17%] (see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY)
 Decreased Cardiac Output 
Hypertension [Peds: 8%] Hypotension 26%
 Central Nervous System: Movement* [Peds: 17%]
 Injection Site: Burning/Stinging or Pain, 17.6% [Peds: 10%]
 Metabolic/Nutritional: Hyperlipemia*
 Respiratory: Apnea (see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY)
 Respiratory Acidosis During Weaning*
 Skin and Appendages: Rash [Peds: 5%] Pruritus [Peds: 2%]
 Events without an * or % had an incidence of 1% to 3% *Incidence of events 3% to 10%
 29
  Reference ID: 3520825
                                                                                                    1 Incidence less than 1% - Probably Causally Related
 Body as a Whole:
  Anesthesia/MAC Sedation ICU Sedation
 Anaphylaxis/Anaphylactoid Reaction  Perinatal Disorder  [Tachycardia]  [Bigeminy] [Bradycardia] [Premature Ventricular Contractions] [Hemorrhage]  [ECG Abnormal]  [Arrhythmia Atrial]  [Fever]  [Extremities Pain] [Anticholinergic Syndrome]
 Cardiovascular: Premature Atrial Contractions Syncope
 Central Nervous System: Hypertonia/Dystonia, Paresthesia Agitation
 Digestive: [Hypersalivation]  [Nausea]
 Hemic/Lymphatic:  [Leukocytosis]
 Injection Site: [Phlebitis]  [Pruritus]
 Metabolic: [Hypomagnesemia] Musculoskeletal: Myalgia Nervous: [Dizziness]
 [Agitation] [Chills] [Somnolence] [Delirium]
 Respiratory: Wheezing [Cough] [Laryngospasm] [Hypoxia]
 Decreased Lung Function
 Skin and Appendages:  Flushing, Pruritus
 Special Senses: Amblyopia [Vision Abnormal]
 Urogenital: Cloudy Urine Green Urine
 30
 Reference ID: 3520825
 2
                                                                                                      1 Incidence less than 1% - Causal Relationship Unknown
 Anesthesia/MAC Sedation ICU Sedation  Body as a Whole: Asthenia, Awareness, Chest Pain, Extremities Pain, Fever, Increased Drug Effect, Neck Rigidity/Stiffness, Trunk Pain
 Fever, Sepsis, Trunk Pain, Whole Body Weakness

Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia, Atrial Fibrillation, Atrioventricular Heart Block, Bigeminy, Bleeding, Bundle Branch  Arrhythmia, Atrial Fibrillation, Bigeminy, Cardiac Arrest, Extrasystole, Right Heart Failure, Ventricular Tachycardia 
Block, Cardiac Arrest, ECG Abnormal,
 Edema, Extrasystole, Heart Block, 
Hypertension, Myocardial  Infarction, Myocardial Ischemia,
 Premature Ventricular Contractions,
 ST Segment Depression,
 Supraventricular Tachycardia,
 Tachycardia, Ventricular Fibrillation
  Central Nervous System: Abnormal Dreams, Agitation, Chills/Shivering, Intracranial Hypertension, Amorous Behavior, Anxiety, Seizures, Somnolence, Thinking Abnormal Bucking/Jerking/Thrashing,  Chills/Shivering/Clonic/Myoclonic Movement, Combativeness, Confusion, Delirium, Depression, Dizziness, Emotional Lability, Euphoria, Fatigue, Hallucinations, Headache, Hypotonia, Hysteria, Insomnia, Moaning, Neuropathy, Opisthotonos, Rigidity, Seizures, Somnolence, Tremor, Twitching
 Digestive: Cramping, Diarrhea, Dry Mouth, Ileus, Liver Function Abnormal Enlarged Parotid, Nausea, Swallowing, Vomiting
 Hematologic/Lymphatic: Coagulation Disorder, Leukocytosis
 Injection Site: Hives/Itching, Phlebitis, Redness/Discoloration
 Metabolic/Nutritional: Hyperkalemia, Hyperlipemia BUN Increased, Creatinine Increased, Dehydration, Hyperglycemia, Metabolic Acidosis, Osmolality Increased
 Respiratory: Bronchospasm, Burning in Throat, Hypoxia Cough, Dyspnea, Hiccough, Hyperventilation, Hypoventilation, Hypoxia, Laryngospasm, Pharyngitis, Sneezing, Tachypnea, Upper Airway Obstruction
 Skin and Appendages: Conjunctival Hyperemia, Diaphoresis, Rash
 31
 Reference ID: 3520825
            Urticaria
 Special Senses: Diplopia, Ear Pain, Eye Pain, Nystagmus, Taste Perversion, Tinnitus
 Urogenital: Oliguria, Urine Retention Kidney Failure
 1 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE:
  2 There are reports of the abuse of propofol for recreational and other improper purposes, which
 3 have resulted in fatalities and other injuries.
 Instances of self-administration of DIPRIVAN
 4 Injectable Emulsion by health care professionals have also been reported, which have resulted
 5 in fatalities and other injuries.
 Inventories of  DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be
 6 stored and managed to prevent the risk of diversion, including restriction of access and
 7 accounting procedures as appropriate to the clinical setting.
 8 OVERDOSAGE:
 9 If overdosage occurs, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration should be discontinued
 10 immediately.
 Overdosage is likely to cause cardiorespiratory depression.
 Respiratory  11 depression should be treated by artificial ventilation with oxygen.
 Cardiovascular depression
 12 may require repositioning of the patient by raising the patient's legs, increasing the flow rate
 13 of intravenous fluids, and administering pressor agents and/or anticholinergic agents.
  14 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
 15 Propofol blood concentrations at steady-state are generally proportional to infusion rates,
 16 especially in individual patients.
 Undesirable effects such as cardiorespiratory depression are
 17 likely to occur at higher blood concentrations which result from bolus dosing or rapid
 18 increases in the infusion rate.
 An adequate interval (3 to 5 minutes) must be allowed between
 19 dose adjustments to allow for and assess the clinical effects.
 32
  Reference ID: 3520825
    1 Shake well before use.
Do not use if there is evidence of excessive creaming or
 2 aggregation, if large droplets are visible, or if there are other forms of phase separation
 3 indicating that the stability of the product has been compromised.
 Slight creaming, which
 4 should disappear after shaking, may be visible upon prolonged standing.
 5  When administering DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion by infusion, syringe or
 6 volumetric pumps are recommended to provide controlled infusion rates.
 When infusing
 7 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion to patients undergoing magnetic resonance imaging, metered
 8 control devices may be utilized if mechanical pumps are impractical.
  9 Changes in vital signs indicating a stress response to surgical stimulation or the
 10 emergence from anesthesia may be controlled by the administration of 25 mg (2.5 mL) to
  11 50 mg (5 mL) incremental boluses and/or by increasing the infusion rate of DIPRIVAN
 12 Injectable Emulsion.
 13 For minor surgical procedures (e.g., body surface) nitrous oxide (60% to 70%) can be
  14 combined with a variable rate DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion infusion to provide
 15 satisfactory anesthesia.
With more stimulating surgical procedures (e.g., intra-abdominal), or
 16 if supplementation with nitrous oxide is not provided, administration rate(s) of DIPRIVAN
 17 Injectable Emulsion and/or opioids should be increased in order to provide adequate
 18 anesthesia.
  19 Infusion rates should always be titrated downward in the absence of clinical signs of
 20 light anesthesia until a mild response to surgical stimulation is obtained in order to avoid
 21 administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion at rates higher than are clinically
 22 necessary.
Generally, rates of 50 to 100 mcg/kg/min in adults should be achieved during
 23 maintenance in order to optimize recovery times.
 33
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Other drugs that cause CNS depression (hypnotics/sedatives, inhalational anesthetics,
 2 and opioids) can increase CNS depression induced by propofol.
 Morphine premedication
 3 (0.15 mg/kg) with nitrous oxide 67% in oxygen has been shown to decrease the necessary
 4 propofol injection maintenance infusion rate and therapeutic blood concentrations when
 5 compared to non-narcotic (lorazepam) premedication.
  6 Induction of General Anesthesia
  7 Adult Patients
 8 Most adult patients under 55 years of age and classified as ASA-PS I or II require 2 to
  9 2.5 mg/kg of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for induction when unpremedicated or when
 10 premedicated with oral benzodiazepines or intramuscular opioids.
 For induction, DIPRIVAN
 11 Injectable Emulsion should be titrated (approximately 40 mg every 10 seconds) against the
 12 response of the patient until the clinical signs show the onset of anesthesia.
 As with other
 13 sedative-hypnotic agents, the amount of intravenous opioid and/or benzodiazepine
 14 premedication will influence the response of the patient to an induction dose of DIPRIVAN
 15 Injectable Emulsion.
 16 Elderly, Debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV Patients
  17 It is important to be familiar and experienced with the intravenous use of DIPRIVAN
 18 Injectable Emulsion before treating elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients.
 Due to
 19 the reduced clearance and higher blood concentrations, most of these patients require
 20 approximately 1 to 1.5 mg/kg (approximately 20 mg every 10 seconds) of DIPRIVAN
 21 Injectable Emulsion for induction of anesthesia according to their condition and responses.
 A
 22 rapid bolus should not be used, as this will increase the likelihood of undesirable
 34
  Reference ID: 3520825
             1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 13
 14
 15
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 cardiorespiratory depression including hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction, and/or oxygen
 desaturation (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).  Pediatric Patients
 Most patients aged 3 years through 16 years and classified ASA-PS I or II require 2.5 to
  3.5 mg/kg of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for induction when unpremedicated or when
 lightly premedicated with oral benzodiazepines or intramuscular opioids.
 Within this dosage
 range, younger pediatric patients may require higher induction doses than older pediatric
 patients.
As with other sedative-hypnotic agents, the amount of intravenous opioid and/or
 benzodiazepine premedication will influence the response of the patient to an induction dose
 of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
 A lower dosage is recommended for pediatric patients
 classified as ASA-PS III or IV.
 Attention should be paid to minimize pain on injection when
 administering DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion to pediatric patients.
 Boluses of DIPRIVAN
 Injectable Emulsion may be administered via small veins if pretreated with lidocaine or via
 antecubital or larger veins (see PRECAUTIONS, General).
 Neurosurgical Patients
 Slower induction is recommended using boluses of 20 mg every 10 seconds.
 Slower boluses
 or infusions of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion for induction of anesthesia, titrated to clinical
 responses, will generally result in reduced induction dosage requirements (1 to
  2 mg/kg) (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 Cardiac Anesthesia
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been well-studied in patients with coronary artery
 disease, but experience in patients with hemodynamically significant valvular or congenital
 heart disease is limited.
 As with other anesthetic and sedative-hypnotic agents, DIPRIVAN
 35
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 Injectable Emulsion in healthy patients causes a decrease in blood pressure that is secondary
 2 to decreases in preload (ventricular filling volume at the end of the diastole) and afterload
 3 (arterial resistance at the beginning of the systole).
 The magnitude of these changes is
 4 proportional to the blood and effect site concentrations achieved.
 These concentrations
 5 depend upon the dose and speed of the induction and maintenance infusion rates.
 6 In addition, lower heart rates are observed during maintenance with DIPRIVAN
 7 Injectable Emulsion, possibly due to reduction of the sympathetic activity and/or resetting of
 8 the baroreceptor reflexes.
Therefore, anticholinergic agents should be administered when
 9 increases in vagal tone are anticipated.
 10 As with other anesthetic agents, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion reduces myocardial
 11 oxygen consumption.
 Further studies are needed to confirm and delineate the extent of these
 12 effects on the myocardium and the coronary vascular system.
   13 Morphine premedication (0.15 mg/kg) with nitrous oxide 67% in oxygen has been
 14 shown to decrease the necessary DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion maintenance infusion rates
 15 and therapeutic blood concentrations when compared to non-narcotic (lorazepam)
 16 premedication.
 The rate of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration should be
 17 determined based on the patient's premedication and adjusted according to clinical responses.
   18 A rapid bolus induction should be avoided.
A slow rate of approximately 20 mg every
 19 10 seconds until induction onset (0.5 to 1.5 mg/kg) should be used.
 In order to assure
 20 adequate anesthesia, when DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is used as the primary agent,
 21 maintenance infusion rates should not be less than 100 mcg/kg/min and should be
 22 supplemented with analgesic levels of continuous opioid administration.
When an opioid is
 23 used as the primary agent, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion maintenance rates should not be
 36
  Reference ID: 3520825
                                                                     1 less than 50 mcg/kg/min, and care should be taken to ensure amnesia.
 Higher doses of
 2 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion will reduce the opioid requirements (see Table 4).
 When
 3 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is used as the primary anesthetic, it should not be
 4 administered with the high-dose opioid technique as this may increase the likelihood of
 5 hypotension (see PRECAUTIONS, Cardiac Anesthesia).
  6 Table 4.
Cardiac Anesthesia Techniques
 Primary Agent Rate Secondary Agent/Rate        (Following Induction with Primary Agent)
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion OPIOIDa/0.05 to 0.075 mcg/kg/min (no bolus) Preinduction  Anxiolysis 25 mcg/kg/min
 Induction 0.5 to 1.5 mg/kg over 60 sec
 Maintenance (Titrated to Clinical
 Response)
 100 to 150 mcg/kg/min
 OPIOIDb DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion/50 to 100 mcg/kg/min (no bolus)
 Induction 25 to 50 mcg/kg Maintenance 0.2 to 0.3 mcg/kg/min
 7 aOPIOID is defined in terms of fentanyl equivalents, i.e., 8 1 mcg of fentanyl   =  5 mcg of alfentanil (for bolus)  9  =  10 mcg of alfentanil (for maintenance)
 10   or  11  =   0.1 mcg of sufentanil  12 bCare should be taken to ensure amnesia.
 13
  14 Maintenance of General Anesthesia
  15 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been used with a variety of agents commonly used in
 16 anesthesia such as atropine, scopolamine, glycopyrrolate, diazepam, depolarizing and
 17 nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, and opioid analgesics, as well as with inhalational and
 18 regional anesthetic agents.
  37
 Reference ID: 3520825
   1 In the elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients, rapid bolus doses should not
 2 be used, as this will increase cardiorespiratory effects including hypotension, apnea, airway
 3 obstruction, and oxygen desaturation.
 4 Adult Patients
 5 In adults, anesthesia can be maintained by administering DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion by
 6 infusion or intermittent IV bolus injection.
 The patient's clinical response will determine the
 7 infusion rate or the amount and frequency of incremental injections.
 8 Continuous Infusion
 9 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 100 to 200 mcg/kg/min administered in a variable rate
 10 infusion with 60% to 70% nitrous oxide and oxygen provides anesthesia for patients
 11 undergoing general surgery.
Maintenance by infusion of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 12 should immediately follow the induction dose in order to provide satisfactory or continuous
 13 anesthesia during the induction phase.
During this initial period following the induction dose,
 14 higher rates of infusion are generally required (150 to 200 mcg/kg/min) for the first
  15 10 to 15 minutes.
 Infusion rates should subsequently be decreased 30% to 50% during the
 16 first half-hour of maintenance.
 Generally, rates of 50 to 100 mcg/kg/min in adults should be
 17 achieved during maintenance in order to optimize recovery times.
   18 Other drugs that cause CNS depression (hypnotics/sedatives, inhalational anesthetics,
 19 and opioids) can increase the CNS depression induced by propofol.
   20 Intermittent Bolus
 21 Increments of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion 25 mg (2.5 mL) to 50 mg (5 mL) may be
 22 administered with nitrous oxide in adult patients undergoing general surgery.
 The
 38
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 incremental boluses should be administered when changes in vital signs indicate a response to
 2 surgical stimulation or light anesthesia.
  3 Pediatric Patients
  4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administered as a variable rate infusion supplemented with
 5 nitrous oxide 60% to 70% provides satisfactory anesthesia for most children 2 months of age
 6 or older, ASA-PS I or II, undergoing general anesthesia.
 7 In general, for the pediatric population, maintenance by infusion of DIPRIVAN
 8 Injectable Emulsion at a rate of 200 to 300 mcg/kg/min should immediately follow the
 9 induction dose.
Following the first half-hour of maintenance, infusion rates of 125 to
  10 150 mcg/kg/min are typically needed.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be titrated to
 11 achieve the desired clinical effect.
Younger pediatric patients may require higher
 12 maintenance infusion rates than older pediatric patients.
 (See Table 2 Clinical Trials.)
  13 Monitored Anesthesia Care (MAC) Sedation
 14 Adult Patients
 15 When DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is administered for MAC sedation, rates of
 16 administration should be individualized and titrated to clinical response.
 In most patients, the
 17 rates of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion administration will be in the range of 25 to
  18 75 mcg/kg/min.
 19 During initiation of MAC sedation, slow infusion or slow injection techniques are
 20 preferable over rapid bolus administration.
 During maintenance of MAC sedation, a variable
 21 rate infusion is preferable over intermittent bolus dose administration.
 In the elderly,
  22 debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients, rapid (single or repeated) bolus dose administration
 23 should not be used for MAC sedation (see WARNINGS).
A rapid bolus injection can result
 39
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 in undesirable cardiorespiratory depression including hypotension, apnea, airway obstruction,
 2 and oxygen desaturation.
 3 Initiation of MAC Sedation
  4 For initiation of MAC sedation, either an infusion or a slow injection method may be utilized
 5 while closely monitoring cardiorespiratory function.
 With the infusion method, sedation may
 6 be initiated by infusing DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion at 100 to 150 mcg/kg/min (6 to
  7 9 mg/kg/h) for a period of 3 to 5 minutes and titrating to the desired clinical effect while
 8 closely monitoring respiratory function.
 With the slow injection method for initiation,
 9 patients will require approximately 0.5 mg/kg administered over 3 to 5 minutes and titrated to
 10 clinical responses.
 When DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is administered slowly over
  11 3 to 5 minutes, most patients will be adequately sedated, and the peak drug effect can be
 12 achieved while minimizing undesirable cardiorespiratory effects occurring at high plasma
  13 levels.
  14 In the elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients, rapid (single or repeated)
 15 bolus dose administration should not be used for MAC sedation (see WARNINGS).
The rate
 16 of administration should be over 3 to 5 minutes and the dosage of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 17 Emulsion should be reduced to approximately 80% of the usual adult dosage in these patients
 18 according to their condition, responses, and changes in vital signs (see DOSAGE AND
 19 ADMINISTRATION).
 20 Maintenance of MAC Sedation
 21 For maintenance of sedation, a variable rate infusion method is preferable over an intermittent
 22 bolus dose method.
 With the variable rate infusion method, patients will generally require
 23 maintenance rates of 25 to 75 mcg/kg/min (1.5 to 4.5 mg/kg/h) during the first 10 to
 40
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 15 minutes of sedation maintenance.
 Infusion rates should subsequently be decreased over
 2 time to 25 to 50 mcg/kg/min and adjusted to clinical responses.
 In titrating to clinical effect,
 3 allow approximately 2 minutes for onset of peak drug effect.
 4 Infusion rates should always be titrated downward in the absence of clinical signs of
 5 light sedation until mild responses to stimulation are obtained in order to avoid sedative
 6 administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion at rates higher than are clinically
 7 necessary.
  8 If the intermittent bolus dose method is used, increments of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 9 Emulsion 10 mg (1 mL) or 20 mg (2 mL) can be administered and titrated to desired clinical
 10 effect.
With the intermittent bolus method of sedation maintenance, there is increased
 11 potential for respiratory depression, transient increases in sedation depth, and prolongation of
 12 recovery.
 13 In the elderly, debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV patients, rapid (single or repeated)
 14 bolus dose administration should not be used for MAC sedation (see WARNINGS).
The rate
 15 of administration and the dosage of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be reduced to
 16 approximately 80% of the usual adult dosage in these patients according to their condition,
 17 responses, and changes in vital signs (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 18 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion can be administered as the sole agent for
 19 maintenance of MAC sedation during surgical/diagnostic procedures.
 When DIPRIVAN
 20 Injectable Emulsion sedation is supplemented with opioid and/or benzodiazepine medications,
 21 these agents increase the sedative and respiratory effects of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 22 and may also result in a slower recovery profile (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions).
  41
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 ICU Sedation
 2 (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Handling Procedures.)
 3 Abrupt discontinuation of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion prior to weaning or for daily
 4 evaluation of sedation levels should be avoided.
 This may result in rapid awakening with
 5 associated anxiety, agitation, and resistance to mechanical ventilation.
 Infusions of
 6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be adjusted to assure a minimal level of sedation is
 7 maintained throughout the weaning process and when assessing the level of sedation (see
 8 PRECAUTIONS).
 9 Adult Patients
 10 For intubated, mechanically ventilated adult patients, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) sedation
 11 should be initiated slowly with a continuous infusion in order to titrate to desired clinical
 12 effect and minimize hypotension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 13 Most adult ICU patients recovering from the effects of general anesthesia or deep
 14 sedation will require maintenance rates of 5 to 50 mcg/kg/min (0.3 to 3 mg/kg/h)
 15 individualized and titrated to clinical response (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 16 With medical ICU patients or patients who have recovered from the effects of general
 17 anesthesia or deep sedation, the rate of administration of 50 mcg/kg/min or higher may be
 18 required to achieve adequate sedation.
These higher rates of administration may increase the
 19 likelihood of patients developing hypotension.
 Administration should not exceed
  20 4 mg/kg/hour unless the benefits outweigh the risks (see WARNINGS).
 21 Dosage and rate of administration should be individualized and titrated to the desired
 22 effect, according to clinically relevant factors including the patient's underlying medical
 23 problems, preinduction and concomitant medications, age, ASA-PS classification, and level
 42
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 of debilitation of the patient.
 The elderly, debilitated, and ASA-PS III or IV patients may
 2 have exaggerated hemodynamic and respiratory responses to rapid bolus doses (see
  3 WARNINGS).
  4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be individualized according to the patient's
  5 condition and response, blood lipid profile, and vital signs (see PRECAUTIONS, Intensive
  6 Care Unit Sedation).
For intubated, mechanically ventilated adult patients, Intensive Care
 7 Unit (ICU) sedation should be initiated slowly with a continuous infusion in order to titrate to
 8 desired clinical effect and minimize hypotension.
 When indicated, initiation of sedation
 9 should begin at 5 mcg/kg/min (0.3 mg/kg/h).
 The infusion rate should be increased by
 10 increments of 5 to 10 mcg/kg/min (0.3 to 0.6 mg/kg/h) until the desired level of sedation is
 11 achieved.
A minimum period of 5 minutes between adjustments should be allowed for onset
 12 of peak drug effect.
Most adult patients require maintenance rates of 5 to 50 mcg/kg/min (0.3
 13 to 3 mg/kg/h) or higher.
 Administration should not exceed 4 mg/kg/hour unless the benefits
 14 outweigh the risks (see WARNINGS).
Dosages of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should
 15 be reduced in patients who have received large dosages of narcotics.
 The DIPRIVAN
 16 Injectable Emulsion dosage requirement may also be reduced by adequate management of
 17 pain with analgesic agents.
As with other sedative medications, there is interpatient
 18 variability in dosage requirements, and these requirements may change with time (see
 19 SUMMARY OF DOSAGE GUIDELINES).
Evaluation of level of sedation and assessment
 20 of CNS function should be carried out daily throughout maintenance to determine the
 21 minimum dose of DIPRIVAN required for sedation (see  Clinical Trials, Intensive Care Unit
 22 (ICU) Sedation).
Bolus administration of 10 or 20 mg should only be used to rapidly
 23 increase depth of sedation in patients where hypotension is not likely to occur.
 Patients with
 43
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 compromised myocardial function, intravascular volume depletion, or abnormally low
 2 vascular tone (e.g., sepsis) may be more susceptible to hypotension (see PRECAUTIONS).
 3 SUMMARY OF DOSAGE GUIDELINES:
 4 Dosages and rates of administration in the following table should be individualized and
 5 titrated to clinical response.
Safety and dosing requirements for induction of anesthesia in
 6 pediatric patients have only been established for children 3 years of age or older.
 Safety and
 7 dosing requirements for the maintenance of anesthesia have only been established for children
 8 2 months of age and older.
   9  For complete dosage information, see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.
 44
  Reference ID: 3520825
                                                                                                                    INDICATION  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
  Induction of General Anesthesia:   Healthy Adults Less Than 55 Years of Age: 40 mg every 10 seconds until induction onset (2 to 2.5 mg/kg).
 Elderly, Debilitated, or ASA-PS III or IV Patients: 20 mg every 10 seconds until induction onset (1 to 1.5 mg/kg).
 Cardiac Anesthesia: 20 mg every 10 seconds until induction onset  (0.5 to 1.5 mg/kg).
 Neurosurgical Patients: 20 mg every 10 seconds until induction onset (1 to 2 mg/kg).
 Pediatric Patients - healthy, from 3 years to 16 years of age: 2.5 to 3.5 mg/kg administered over 20 to 30 seconds.
(see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pediatrics)
 Maintenance of General Anesthesia:  Infusion
 Healthy Adults Less Than 55 Years of Age: 100 to 200 mcg/kg/min (6 to 12 mg/kg/h).
 Elderly, Debilitated, ASA-PS III or IV Patients: 50 to 100 mcg/kg/min (3 to 6 mg/kg/h).
 Cardiac Anesthesia:  Most patients require:
 Primary DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion with Secondary Opioid-
 100 to 150 mcg/kg/min.
 Low-Dose DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion with Primary Opioid-
 50 to 100 mcg/kg/min.
  (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table 4)
  Neurosurgical Patients: 100 to 200 mcg/kg/min (6 to 12 mg/kg/h).
 Pediatric Patients - healthy, from 2 months of age to 16 years of age: 125 to 300 mcg/kg/min (7.5 to 18 mg/kg/h).
 Following the first half hour of maintenance, if clinical signs of light
 anesthesia are not present, the infusion rate should be decreased.
 (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and CLINICAL
 PHARMACOLOGY, Pediatrics)
 Maintenance of General Anesthesia:  Intermittent Bolus
 Healthy Adults Less Than 55 Years of Age: Increments of 20 to 50 mg as needed.
 Initiation of MAC Sedation:  Healthy Adults Less Than 55 Years of Age: Slow infusion or slow injection techniques are recommended to avoid apnea or hypotension.
 Most patients require an infusion of 100 to 150 mcg/kg/min (6 to 9 mg/kg/h) for 3 to 5 minutes or a slow injection of 0.5 mg/kg over 3 to 5 minutes followed immediately by a maintenance infusion.
 Elderly, Debilitated, Neurosurgical, or ASA-PS III or IV Patients: Most patients require dosages similar to healthy adults.
Rapid boluses are to be avoided (see WARNINGS).
 45
 Reference ID: 3520825
                                                                 Maintenance of MAC Sedation:  Healthy Adults Less Than 55 Years of Age: A variable rate infusion technique is preferable over an intermittent bolus  technique.
 Most patients require an infusion of 25 to 75 mcg/kg/min (1.5 to 4.5 mg/kg/h) or incremental bolus doses of 10 mg or 20 mg.
 In Elderly, Debilitated, Neurosurgical, or ASA-PS III or IV Patients: Most patients require 80% of the usual adult dose.
 A rapid (single or repeated) bolus dose should not be used (see WARNINGS).
 Initiation and Maintenance of ICU Sedation in Intubated, Mechanically Ventilated
 Adult Patients - Because of the residual effects of previous anesthetic or sedative agents, in most patients the initial infusion should be 5 mcg/kg/min (0.3 mg/kg/h) for at least 5 minutes.
 Subsequent increments of 5 to 10 mcg/kg/min (0.3 to 0.6 mg/kg/h) over 5 to 10 minutes may be used until desired clinical effect is achieved.
 Maintenance rates of 5 to 50 mcg/kg/min (0.3 to 3 mg/kg/h) or higher may be required.
 Administration should not exceed 4 mg/kg/hour unless the benefits outweigh the risks (see WARNINGS).
 Evaluation of clinical effect and assessment of CNS function should be carried out daily throughout maintenance to determine the minimum dose of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion required for sedation.
 The tubing and any unused DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion drug product should be discarded after 12 hours because DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion contains no preservatives and is capable of supporting growth of microorganisms (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
 Administration with Lidocaine
 If lidocaine is to be administered to minimize pain on injection of DIPRIVAN Injectable
 Emulsion, it is recommended that it be administered prior to DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion
 administration or that it be added to DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion immediately before
 administration and in quantities not exceeding 20 mg lidocaine/200 mg DIPRIVAN.
 Compatibility and Stability
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should not be mixed with other therapeutic agents prior to
 administration.
 46
  Reference ID: 3520825
             1 Dilution Prior to Administration
 2 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is provided as a ready-to-use formulation.
 However, should
 3 dilution be necessary, it should only be diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and it
 4 should not be diluted to a concentration less than 2 mg/mL because it is an emulsion.
 In
 5 diluted form it has been shown to be more stable when in contact with glass than with plastic
 6 (95% potency after 2 hours of running infusion in plastic).
    7 Administration with Other Fluids
 8 Compatibility of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion with the coadministration of
 9 blood/serum/plasma has not been established (see WARNINGS).
When administered using
 10 a y-type infusion set, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion has been shown to be compatible with
 11 the following intravenous fluids.
 12 - 5% Dextrose Injection, USP
 13 - Lactated Ringers Injection, USP
 14 - Lactated Ringers and 5% Dextrose Injection
 15 - 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP
 16 - 5% Dextrose and 0.2% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP
 17 Handling Procedures
 18 General
 19 Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and
 20 discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
 21 Clinical experience with the use of in-line filters and DIPRIVAN Injectable
 22 Emulsion during anesthesia or ICU/MAC sedation is limited.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable
 23 Emulsion should only be administered through a filter with a pore size of 5 micron or
 47
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 greater unless it has been demonstrated that the filter does not restrict the flow of
 2 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion and/or cause the breakdown of the emulsion.
 Filters should
 3 be used with caution and where clinically appropriate.
 Continuous monitoring is necessary
 4 due to the potential for restricted flow and/or breakdown of the emulsion.
 5 Do not use if there is evidence of separation of the phases of the emulsion.
 6 Rare cases of self-administration of DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion by health care
 7 professionals have been reported, including some fatalities (see DRUG ABUSE AND
 8 DEPENDENCE).
 9 Strict aseptic technique must always be maintained during handling.
  10 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is a single access parenteral product (single patient
 11 infusion vial) which contains 0.005% disodium edetate to inhibit the rate of growth of
 12 microorganisms, up to 12 hours, in the event of accidental extrinsic contamination.
  13 However, DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion can still support the growth of
 14 microorganisms as it is not an antimicrobially preserved product under USP
 15 standards.
Do not use if contamination is suspected.
 Discard unused drug product as
 16 directed within the required time limits.
There have been reports in which failure to
 17 use aseptic technique when handling DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion was associated
 18 with microbial contamination of the product and with fever, infection/sepsis, other
 19 life-threatening illness, and/or death.
 20  There have been reports, in the literature and other public sources, of the
 21 transmission of bloodborne pathogens (such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV)
 22 from unsafe injection practices, and use of propofol vials intended for single use on
 48
  Reference ID: 3520825
   1 multiple persons.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion vials are never to be accessed more
 2 than once or used on more than one person.
 3 Diprivan, with EDTA inhibits microbial growth for up to 12 hours, as demonstrated
 4 by test data for representative USP microorganisms.
 5 Guidelines for Aseptic Technique for General Anesthesia/MAC Sedation
 6 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion must be prepared for use just prior to initiation of each
 7 individual anesthetic/sedative procedure.
The vial rubber stopper should be disinfected
 8 using 70% isopropyl alcohol.
DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be drawn into a
 9 sterile syringe immediately after a vial is opened.
 When withdrawing DIPRIVAN Injectable
 10 Emulsion from vials, a sterile vent spike should be used.
 The syringe should be labelled
 11 with appropriate information including the date and time the vial was opened.
 12 Administration should commence promptly and be completed within 12 hours after the vial
 13 has been opened.
 14  DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion must be prepared for single-patient use only.
 Any
 15 unused DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion drug product, reservoirs, dedicated administration
 16 tubing and/or solutions containing DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion must be discarded at the
 17 end of the anesthetic procedure or at 12 hours, whichever occurs sooner.
 The IV line should
 18 be flushed every 12 hours and at the end of the anesthetic procedure to remove residual
 19 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
  20 Guidelines for Aseptic Technique for ICU Sedation
  21 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion must be prepared for single-patient use only.
 Strict aseptic
 22 techniques must be followed.
 The vial rubber stopper should be disinfected using 70%
 23 isopropyl alcohol.
A sterile vent spike and sterile tubing must be used for administration of
 49
  Reference ID: 3520825
        1 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion.
As with other lipid emulsions, the number of IV line
 2 manipulations should be minimized.
 Administration should commence promptly and must
 3 be completed within 12 hours after the vial has been spiked.
 The tubing and any unused
 4 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion drug product must be discarded after 12 hours.
 5  If DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion is transferred to a syringe prior to administration,
 6 it should be drawn into a sterile syringe immediately after a vial is opened.
 When
 7 withdrawing DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion from a vial, a sterile vent spike should be
 8 used.
The syringe should be labelled with appropriate information including the date and
 9 time the vial was opened.
Administration should commence promptly and be completed
 10 within 12 hours after the vial has been opened.
 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion should be
 11 discarded and administration lines changed after 12 hours.
 12 HOW SUPPLIED:
 13 DIPRIVAN Injectable Emulsion, USP is available as follows:
 Product NDC No.
No.
Strength
 260910 63323-269-10 1% (10 mg/mL propofol)
 10 mL ready-to-use single-patient infusion vial in packages of ten.
 260929 63323-269-29 1% (10 mg/mL propofol)
 20 mL ready-to-use single-patient infusion vial in packages of ten.
 260950 63323-269-50 1% (10 mg/mL propofol)
 50 mL ready-to-use single-patient infusion vial in packages of twenty.
 260965 63323-269-65 1% (10 mg/mL propofol)
 100 mL ready-to-use single-patient infusion vial in packages of ten.
 14 Propofol undergoes oxidative degradation, in the presence of oxygen, and is therefore
 15 packaged under nitrogen to eliminate this degradation path.
  16 Store between 4 to 25C (40 to 77F).
 Do not freeze.
Shake well before use.
     50
Reference ID: 3520825
   1 All trademarks are the property of Fresenius Ka
2
  3 Manufactured for:
 4
  5 Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC
 6 Lake Zurich, IL 60047
 7
  8 Made in Austria
 9 451094F
 10 Revised: February 2014
 bi USA, LLC.
 51
  Reference ID: 3520825
  