label
HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
 These highlights do not include all the information needed to use
 Rapamune safely and effectively.
See full prescribing information for
 Rapamune.
 RAPAMUNE (sirolimus) ORAL SOLUTION AND TABLETS
 Initial U.S. Approval: 1999
 WARNING: IMMUNOSUPPRESSION, USE IS NOT
 RECOMMENDED IN LIVER OR LUNG TRANSPLANT PATIENTS
 See Full Prescribing Information for complete Boxed Warning.
 &#x2022;  Increased susceptibility to infection and the possible development of lymphoma and other malignancies may result
 from immunosuppression (5.1).
Only physicians experienced in
 immunosuppressive therapy and management of renal
 transplant patients should use Rapamune.
 &#x2022;  The safety and efficacy of Rapamune as immunosuppressive therapy have not been established in liver or lung transplant
 patients, and therefore, such use is not recommended (5.2, 5.3).
 &#x2022; Liver Transplantation - Excess mortality, graft loss, and
 hepatic artery thrombosis (5.2).
 &#x2022; Lung Transplantation - Bronchial anastomotic
 dehiscence (5.3).
 -------------------------------INDICATIONS AND USAGE-------------------------------
Rapamune is an immunosuppressive agent indicated for the
 prophylaxis of organ rejection in patients aged &#x2265;13 years receiving  renal transplants.
 &#x2022;  Patients at low- to moderate-immunologic risk: Use initially with cyclosporine (CsA) and corticosteroids.
CsA withdrawal is
 recommended 2-4 months after transplantation (1.1).
 &#x2022;  Patients at high-immunologic risk: Use in combination with cyclosporine and corticosteroids for the first 12 months following
 transplantation (1.1).
Safety and efficacy of CsA withdrawal has
 not been established in high risk patients (1.1, 1.2, 14.3).
 &#x2022;  Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended for all patients (2.3, 5.15).
 -------------------------------DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION-------------------------------
&#x2022;  Take once daily by mouth, consistently with or without food.
Take the initial dose as soon as possible after transplantation and
 4 hours after CsA (2, 7.1).
Adjust the Rapamune maintenance
 dose to achieve sirolimus trough concentrations within the target-
range (2.3).
 Patients at low- to moderate-immunologic risk
 &#x2022;  Rapamune and Cyclosporine Combination Therapy: One loading dose of 6 mg on day 1, followed by daily maintenance doses of
 2 mg (2.1).
 &#x2022;  Rapamune Following Cyclosporine Withdrawal: 2-4 months post-transplantation, withdraw CsA over 4-8 weeks (2.2).
 Patients at high-immunologic risk
 &#x2022;  Rapamune and Cyclosporine Combination Therapy (for the first 12 months post-transplantation): One loading dose of up to 15 mg
 on day 1, followed by daily maintenance doses of 5 mg (2.2).
 -------------------------------DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS-------------------------------
&#x2022; Rapamune Oral Solution: 60 mg per 60 mL in amber glass bottle (3.1).
 &#x2022; Rapamune Tablets: 0.5 mg, tan; 1 mg, white; 2 mg, yellow-to-beige (3.2).
 -------------------------------CONTRAINDICATIONS-------------------------------
Hypersensitivity to Rapamune (4).
 -------------------------------WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS-------------------------------
&#x2022; Hypersensitivity Reactions (5.4)
 &#x2022; Angioedema (5.5)
 &#x2022; Fluid Accumulation and Wound Healing (5.6)
 &#x2022; Hyperlipidemia (5.7)
 &#x2022; Renal Function (5.8)
 &#x2022; Proteinuria (5.9)
 &#x2022; Latent Viral Infections (5.10)
  &#x2022; Interstitial Lung Disease (5.11)
 &#x2022; De Novo Use Without Cyclosporine (5.12)
 &#x2022; Increased Risk of Calcineurin Inhibitor-induced HUS/TTP/TMA
 (5.13)
 -------------------------------ADVERSE REACTIONS-------------------------------
The most common (&gt; 30%) adverse reactions are: peripheral edema,
 hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, creatinine  increased, abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache, fever, urinary tract infection,
 anemia, nausea, arthralgia, pain, and thrombocytopenia (6).
 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wyeth  Pharmaceuticals Inc.
at 1-800-934-5556 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or
 www.fda.gov/medwatch
 -------------------------------DRUG INTERACTIONS-------------------------------
&#x2022;  Avoid concomitant use with strong CYP3A4/P-gp inducers or strong CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitors that decrease or increase
 sirolimus concentrations (7.4, 12.3).
 &#x2022;  Exercise caution when administering with drugs that are inhibitors/inducers of CYP3A4/P-gp (7.4, 12.3).
 -------------------------------USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS-------------------------------
&#x2022; Pregnancy: Use only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the embryo/fetus (8.1).
 &#x2022; Hepatic impairment: Reduce maintenance dose in patients with hepatic impairment (2.5, 8.6, 12.3).
 See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and the
 FDA-approved Medication Guide
 Revised: 12/2012
 Reference ID: 3272763  1
 FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS *
 BOX WARNING: IMMUNOSUPPRESSION, USE IS NOT
 RECOMMENDED IN LIVER OR LUNG TRANSPLANT PATIENTS
 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Renal Transplantation
 1.2 Limitations of Use
 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
 2.1 Patients at Low- to Moderate-Immunologic Risk
 2.2 Patients at High-Immunologic Risk
 2.3 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
 2.4 Patients with Low Body Weight
 2.5 Patients with Hepatic Impairment
 2.6 Patients with Renal Impairment
 2.7 Instructions for Dilution and Administration of Rapamune Oral
 Solution
 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
 3.1 Rapamune Oral Solution
 3.2 Rapamune Tablets
 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
 5.1 Increased Susceptibility to Infection and the Possible Development of
 Lymphoma
 5.2 Liver Transplantation -&#x201c; Excess Mortality, Graft Loss, and Hepatic  Artery Thrombosis (HAT)
 5.3 Lung Transplantation - Bronchial Anastomotic Dehiscence
 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions
 5.5 Angioedema
 5.6 Fluid Accumulation and Wound Healing
 5.7 Hyperlipidemia
 5.8 Renal Function
 5.9 Proteinuria
 5.10 Latent Viral Infections
  5.11 Interstitial Lung Disease
 5.12 De Novo Use Without Cyclosporine
 5.13 Increased Risk of Calcineurin Inhibitor-Induced Hemolytic Uremic  Syndrome/Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura/Thrombotic  Microangiopathy (HUS/TTP/TMA)
 5.14 Antimicrobial Prophylaxis
 5.15 Assay for Sirolimus Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
 5.16 Skin Cancer Events
 5.17 Interaction with Strong Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp
 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience in Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection  Following Renal Transplantation
 6.2 Rapamune Following Cyclosporine Withdrawal
 * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed
 6.3 High-Immunologic Risk Patients
 6.4 Conversion from Calcineurin Inhibitors to Rapamune in Maintenance
 Renal Transplant Population
 6.5 Pediatrics
 6.6 Postmarketing Experience
 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
 7.1 Use with Cyclosporine
 7.2 Strong Inducers and Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp
 7.3 Grapefruit Juice
 7.4 Inducers or Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp
 7.5 Vaccination
 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
 8.1 Pregnancy
 8.3 Nursing Mothers
 8.4 Pediatric Use
 8.5 Geriatric Use
 8.6 Patients with Hepatic Impairment
 8.7 Patients with Renal Impairment
 10 OVERDOSAGE
 11 DESCRIPTION
 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
 12.1 Mechanism of Action
 12.2 Pharmacodynamics
 12.3 Pharmacokinetics
 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
 13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
 14 CLINICAL STUDIES
 14.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection
 14.2 Cyclosporine Withdrawal Study
 14.3 High-Immunologic Risk Patients
 14.4 Conversion from Calcineurin Inhibitors to Rapamune in Maintenance
 Renal Transplant Patients
 14.5 Conversion from a CNI-based Regimen to a Sirolimus-based
 Regimen in Liver Transplant Patients
 14.6 Pediatrics
  15 REFERENCES
 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
 16.1 Rapamune Oral Solution
 16.2 Rapamune Tablets
 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
 17.1 Dosage
 17.2 Skin Cancer Events
 17.3 Pregnancy Risks
 Reference ID: 3272763 2
 FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
  BOX WARNING: IMMUNOSUPPRESSION, USE IS NOT RECOMMENDED IN LIVER
 OR LUNG TRANSPLANT PATIENTS
 &#x2022;  Increased susceptibility to infection and the possible development of lymphoma and
 other malignancies may result from immunosuppression
 Increased susceptibility to infection and the possible development of lymphoma may result
 from immunosuppression.
Only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and
 management of renal transplant patients should use Rapamune.
Patients receiving the
 drug should be managed in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate laboratory and
 supportive medical resources.
The physician responsible for maintenance therapy should
 have complete information requisite for the follow-up of the patient [see Warnings and
 Precautions (5.1)].
 &#x2022;  The safety and efficacy of Rapamune (sirolimus) as immunosuppressive therapy
 have not been established in liver or lung transplant patients, and therefore, such
 use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)].
 &#x2022;  Liver Transplantation - Excess Mortality, Graft Loss, and Hepatic Artery  Thrombosis (HAT)
 The use of Rapamune in combination with tacrolimus was associated with excess mortality
 and graft loss in a study in de novo liver transplant patients.
Many of these patients had
 evidence of infection at or near the time of death.
 In this and another study in de novo liver transplant patients, the use of Rapamune in
 combination with cyclosporine or tacrolimus was associated with an increase in HAT; most
 cases of HAT occurred within 30 days post-transplantation and most led to graft loss or
 death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].
 &#x2022;  Lung Transplantation - Bronchial Anastomotic Dehiscence
 Cases of bronchial anastomotic dehiscence, most fatal, have been reported in de novo lung
 transplant patients when Rapamune has been used as part of an immunosuppressive
 regimen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)].
 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Renal Transplantation
 Rapamune (sirolimus) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in patients aged 13  years or older receiving renal transplants.
Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended for all
 Reference ID: 3272763  3
 patients receiving Rapamune [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions
 (5.15)].
 In patients at low- to moderate-immunologic risk, it is recommended that Rapamune be
 used initially in a regimen with cyclosporine and corticosteroids; cyclosporine should be
 withdrawn 2 to 4 months after transplantation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)].
 In patients at high-immunologic risk (defined as Black recipients and/or repeat renal
 transplant recipients who lost a previous allograft for immunologic reason and/or patients with
 high panel-reactive antibodies [PRA; peak PRA level &gt; 80%]), it is recommended that
 Rapamune be used in combination with cyclosporine and corticosteroids for the first year
 following transplantation [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Clinical Studies (14.3)].
 1.2 Limitations of Use
 Cyclosporine withdrawal has not been studied in patients with Banff Grade 3 acute rejection or
 vascular rejection prior to cyclosporine withdrawal, those who are dialysis-dependent, those
 with serum creatinine &gt; 4.5 mg/dL, Black patients, patients of multi-organ transplants,
 secondary transplants, or those with high levels of panel-reactive antibodies [see Clinical
 Studies (14.2)].
 In patients at high-immunologic risk, the safety and efficacy of Rapamune used in
 combination with cyclosporine and corticosteroids has not been studied beyond one year;
 therefore after the first 12 months following transplantation, any adjustments to the
 immunosuppressive regimen should be considered on the basis of the clinical status of the
 patient [see Clinical Studies (14.3)].
 In pediatric patients, the safety and efficacy of Rapamune have not been established in
 patients &lt; 13 years old, or in pediatric (&lt; 18 years) renal transplant patients considered at high-
immunologic risk [see Adverse Reactions (6.5), Clinical Studies (14.6)].
The safety and
 efficacy of de novo use of Rapamune without cyclosporine have not been established in renal
 transplant patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)].
 The safety and efficacy of conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune in
 maintenance renal transplant patients have not been established [see Clinical Studies (14.4)].
 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
 Rapamune is to be administered orally once daily, consistently with or without food [see
 Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 Tablets should not be crushed, chewed or split.
Patients unable to take the tablets should be
 prescribed the solution and instructed in its use.
 The initial dose of Rapamune should be administered as soon as possible after transplantation.
 It is recommended that Rapamune be taken 4 hours after administration of cyclosporine oral
 solution (MODIFIED) and or/cyclosporine capsules (MODIFIED) [see Drug Interactions
 (7.2)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 4
     Frequent Rapamune dose adjustments based on non-steady-state sirolimus concentrations can
 lead to overdosing or underdosing because sirolimus has a long half-life.
Once Rapamune
 maintenance dose is adjusted, patients should continue on the new maintenance dose for at least
 7 to 14 days before further dosage adjustment with concentration monitoring.
In most patients,
 dose adjustments can be based on simple proportion: new Rapamune dose = current dose x
 (target concentration/current concentration).
A loading dose should be considered in addition to
 a new maintenance dose when it is necessary to increase sirolimus trough concentrations:
 Rapamune loading dose = 3 x (new maintenance dose - current maintenance dose).
The
 maximum Rapamune dose administered on any day should not exceed 40 mg.
If an estimated
 daily dose exceeds 40 mg due to the addition of a loading dose, the loading dose should be
 administered over 2 days.
Sirolimus trough concentrations should be monitored at least 3 to 4
 days after a loading dose(s).
 Two milligrams (2 mg) of Rapamune Oral Solution have been demonstrated to be clinically
 equivalent to 2 mg Rapamune Tablets; hence, are interchangeable on a mg-to-mg basis.
 However, it is not known if higher doses of Rapamune Oral Solution are clinically equivalent
 to higher doses of Rapamune Tablets on a mg-to-mg basis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 2.1 Patients at Low- to Moderate-Immunologic Risk
 Rapamune and Cyclosporine Combination Therapy
 For de novo renal transplant patients, it is recommended that Rapamune Oral Solution and
 Tablets be used initially in a regimen with cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
A loading dose of
 Rapamune equivalent to 3 times the maintenance dose should be given, i.e. a daily maintenance
 dose of 2 mg should be preceded with a loading dose of 6 mg.
Therapeutic drug monitoring
 should be used to maintain sirolimus drug concentrations within the target-range [see Dosage
 and Administration (2.3)].
 Rapamune Following Cyclosporine Withdrawal
 At 2 to 4 months following transplantation, cyclosporine should be progressively discontinued
 over 4 to 8 weeks, and the Rapamune dose should be adjusted to obtain sirolimus whole blood
 trough concentrations within the target-range [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
Because
 cyclosporine inhibits the metabolism and transport of sirolimus, sirolimus concentrations may
 decrease when cyclosporine is discontinued, unless the Rapamune dose is increased [see
 Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 2.2 Patients at High-Immunologic Risk
 In patients with high-immunologic risk, it is recommended that Rapamune be used in
 combination with cyclosporine and corticosteroids for the first 12 months following
 transplantation [see Clinical Studies (14.3)].
The safety and efficacy of this combination in
 high-immunologic risk patients has not been studied beyond the first 12 months.
Therefore,
 after the first 12 months following transplantation, any adjustments to the immunosuppressive
 regimen should be considered on the basis of the clinical status of the patient.
 Reference ID: 3272763 5
 For patients receiving Rapamune with cyclosporine, Rapamune therapy should be initiated with
 a loading dose of up to 15 mg on day 1 post-transplantation.
Beginning on day 2, an initial
 maintenance dose of 5 mg/day should be given.
A trough level should be obtained between
 days 5 and 7, and the daily dose of Rapamune should thereafter be adjusted [see Dosage and
 Administration (2.3)].
 The starting dose of cyclosporine should be up to 7 mg/kg/day in divided doses and the dose
 should subsequently be adjusted to achieve target whole blood trough concentrations [see
 Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
Prednisone should be administered at a minimum of
 5 mg/day.
 Antibody induction therapy may be used.
 2.3 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
 Monitoring of sirolimus trough concentrations is recommended for all patients, especially in
 those patients likely to have altered drug metabolism, in patients &#x2265; 13 years who weigh less
 than 40 kg, in patients with hepatic impairment, when a change in the Rapamune dosage form
 is made, and during concurrent administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers and inhibitors [see
 Drug Interactions (7)].
 Therapeutic drug monitoring should not be the sole basis for adjusting Rapamune therapy.
 Careful attention should be made to clinical signs/symptoms, tissue biopsy findings, and
 laboratory parameters.
 When used in combination with cyclosporine, sirolimus trough concentrations should be
 maintained within the target-range [see Clinical Studies (14), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 Following cyclosporine withdrawal in transplant patients at low- to moderate-immunologic
 risk, the target sirolimus trough concentrations should be 16 to 24 ng/mL for the first year
 following transplantation.
Thereafter, the target sirolimus concentrations should be 12 to
 20 ng/mL.
 The above recommended 24-hour trough concentration ranges for sirolimus are based on
 chromatographic methods.
Currently in clinical practice, sirolimus whole blood concentrations
 are being measured by both chromatographic and immunoassay methodologies.
Because the
 measured sirolimus whole blood concentrations depend on the type of assay used, the
 concentrations obtained by these different methodologies are not interchangeable [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.15), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
Adjustments to the targeted
 range should be made according to the assay utilized to determine sirolimus trough
 concentrations.
Since results are assay and laboratory dependent, and the results may change
 over time, adjustments to the targeted therapeutic range must be made with a detailed
 knowledge of the site-specific assay used.
Therefore, communication should be maintained
 with the laboratory performing the assay.
A discussion of different assay methods is contained
 in Clinical Therapeutics, Volume 22, Supplement B, April 2000 [see References (15)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 6
 2.4 Patients with Low Body Weight
 The initial dosage in patients &#x2265; 13 years who weigh less than 40 kg should be adjusted, based
 on body surface area, to 1 mg/m2/day.
The loading dose should be 3 mg/m 2.
 2.5 Patients with Hepatic Impairment
 It is recommended that the maintenance dose of Rapamune be reduced by approximately one
 third in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and by approximately one half in
 patients with severe hepatic impairment.
It is not necessary to modify the Rapamune loading
 dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 2.6 Patients with Renal Impairment
 Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients with impaired renal function [see Use in Specific
 Populations (8.7)].
 2.7 Instructions for Dilution and Administration of Rapamune Oral Solution
 The amber oral dose syringe should be used to withdraw the prescribed amount of Rapamune
 Oral Solution from the bottle.
Empty the correct amount of Rapamune from the syringe into
 only a glass or plastic container holding at least two (2) ounces (1/4 cup, 60 mL) of water or
 orange juice.
No other liquids, including grapefruit juice, should be used for dilution [see Drug
 Interactions (7.3), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
Stir vigorously and drink at once.
Refill the
 container with an additional volume [minimum of four (4) ounces (1/2 cup, 120 mL)] of water
 or orange juice, stir vigorously, and drink at once.
 Rapamune Oral Solution contains polysorbate 80, which is known to increase the rate of
 di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) extraction from polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
This should be
 considered during the preparation and administration of Rapamune Oral Solution.
It is
 important that these recommendations be followed closely.
 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
 3.1 Rapamune Oral Solution
 &#x2022; 60 mg per 60 mL in amber glass bottle.
 3.2 Rapamune Tablets
 &#x2022; 0.5 mg, tan, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 0.5 mg" on one side.
 &#x2022; 1 mg, white, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 1 mg" on one side.
 &#x2022; 2 mg, yellow-to-beige triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 2 mg" on one
 side.
 Reference ID: 3272763 7
 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
 Rapamune is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to Rapamune [see Warnings
 and Precautions (5.4)].
 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
 5.1 Increased Susceptibility to Infection and the Possible Development of Lymphoma
 Increased susceptibility to infection and the possible development of lymphoma and other
 malignancies, particularly of the skin, may result from immunosuppression.
The rates of
 lymphoma/lymphoproliferative disease observed in Studies 1 and 2 were 0.7-3.2% (for
 Rapamune-treated patients) versus 0.6-0.8% (azathioprine and placebo control) [see Adverse
 Reactions (6.1) and (6.2)].
Oversuppression of the immune system can also increase
 susceptibility to infection, including opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis, fatal
 infections, and sepsis.
Only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and
 management of organ transplant patients should use Rapamune.
Patients receiving the drug
 should be managed in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate laboratory and supportive
 medical resources.
The physician responsible for maintenance therapy should have complete
 information requisite for the follow-up of the patient.
 5.2 Liver Transplantation - Excess Mortality, Graft Loss, and Hepatic Artery  Thrombosis (HAT)
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune as immunosuppressive therapy have not been established
 in liver transplant patients; therefore, such use is not recommended.
The use of Rapamune has
 been associated with adverse outcomes in patients following liver transplantation, including
 excess mortality, graft loss and Hepatic Artery Thrombosis (HAT).
 In a study in de novo liver transplant patients, the use of Rapamune in combination with
 tacrolimus was associated with excess mortality and graft loss (22% in combination versus 9%
 on tacrolimus alone).
Many of these patients had evidence of infection at or near the time of
 death.
 In this and another study in de novo liver transplant patients, the use of Rapamune in
 combination with cyclosporine or tacrolimus was associated with an increase in HAT (7% in
 combination versus 2% in the control arm); most cases of HAT occurred within 30 days post-
transplantation, and most led to graft loss or death.
 In a clinical study in stable liver transplant patients 6-144 months post-liver transplantation and
 receiving a CNI-based regimen, an increased number of deaths was observed in the group
 converted to a Rapamune-based regimen compared to the group who was continued on a CNI-
based regimen, although the difference was not statistically significant (3.8% versus 1.4%) [see
 Clinical Studies (14.5)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 8
 5.3 Lung Transplantation - Bronchial Anastomotic Dehiscence
 Cases of bronchial anastomotic dehiscence, most fatal, have been reported in de novo lung
 transplant patients when Rapamune has been used as part of an immunosuppressive regimen.
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune as immunosuppressive therapy have not been established
 in lung transplant patients; therefore, such use is not recommended.
 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions
 Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema,
 exfoliative dermatitis and hypersensitivity vasculitis, have been associated with the
 administration of Rapamune [see Adverse Reactions (6.6)].
 5.5 Angioedema
 Rapamune has been associated with the development of angioedema.
The concomitant use of
 Rapamune with other drugs known to cause angioedema, such as ACE-inhibitors, may increase
 the risk of developing angioedema.
 5.6 Fluid Accumulation and Wound Healing
 There have been reports of impaired or delayed wound healing in patients receiving Rapamune,
 including lymphocele and wound dehiscence [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].
mTOR inhibitors
 such as sirolimus have been shown in vitro to inhibit production of certain growth factors that
 may affect angiogenesis, fibroblast proliferation, and vascular permeability.
Lymphocele, a
 known surgical complication of renal transplantation, occurred significantly more often in a
 dose-related fashion in patients treated with Rapamune [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].
 Appropriate measures should be considered to minimize such complications.
Patients with a
 body mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m2
 may be at increased risk of abnormal wound  healing based on data from the medical literature.
 There have also been reports of fluid accumulation, including peripheral edema, lymphedema,
 pleural effusion, ascites, and pericardial effusions (including hemodynamically significant  effusions and tamponade requiring intervention in children and adults), in patients receiving
 Rapamune.
 5.7 Hyperlipidemia
 Increased serum cholesterol and triglycerides requiring treatment occurred more frequently in
 patients treated with Rapamune compared with azathioprine or placebo controls in Studies 1
 and 2 [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].
There were increased incidences of hypercholesterolemia
 (43-46%) and/or hypertriglyceridemia (45-57%) in patients receiving Rapamune compared
 with placebo controls (each 23%).
The risk/benefit should be carefully considered in patients
 with established hyperlipidemia before initiating an immunosuppressive regimen including
 Rapamune.
 Reference ID: 3272763 9
     Any patient who is administered Rapamune should be monitored for hyperlipidemia.
If
 detected, interventions such as diet, exercise, and lipid-lowering agents should be initiated as
 outlined by the National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines.
 In clinical trials of patients receiving Rapamune plus cyclosporine or Rapamune after
 cyclosporine withdrawal, up to 90% of patients required treatment for hyperlipidemia and
 hypercholesterolemia with anti-lipid therapy (e.g., statins, fibrates).
Despite anti-lipid
 management, up to 50% of patients had fasting serum cholesterol levels &gt;240 mg/dL and
 triglycerides above recommended target levels.
The concomitant administration of Rapamune
 and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors resulted in adverse events such as CPK elevations (3%),
 myalgia (6.7%) and rhabdomyolysis (&lt;1%).
In these trials, the number of patients was too
 small and duration of follow-up too short to evaluate the long-term impact of Rapamune on
 cardiovascular mortality.
 During Rapamune therapy with or without cyclosporine, patients should be monitored for
 elevated lipids, and patients administered an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor and/or fibrate
 should be monitored for the possible development of rhabdomyolysis and other adverse effects,
 as described in the respective labeling for these agents.
 5.8 Renal Function
 Renal function should be closely monitored during the co-administration of Rapamune with
 cyclosporine, because long-term administration of the combination has been associated with
 deterioration of renal function.
Patients treated with cyclosporine and Rapamune were noted to
 have higher serum creatinine levels and lower glomerular filtration rates compared with
 patients treated with cyclosporine and placebo or azathioprine controls (Studies 1 and 2).
The
 rate of decline in renal function in these studies was greater in patients receiving Rapamune and
 cyclosporine compared with control therapies.
 Appropriate adjustment of the immunosuppressive regimen, including discontinuation of
 Rapamune and/or cyclosporine, should be considered in patients with elevated or increasing
 serum creatinine levels.
In patients at low- to moderate-immunologic risk, continuation of
 combination therapy with cyclosporine beyond 4 months following transplantation should only
 be considered when the benefits outweigh the risks of this combination for the individual
 patients.
Caution should be exercised when using agents (e.g., aminoglycosides and
 amphotericin B) that are known to have a deleterious effect on renal function.
 In patients with delayed graft function, Rapamune may delay recovery of renal function.
 5.9 Proteinuria
 Periodic quantitative monitoring of urinary protein excretion is recommended.
In a study
 evaluating conversion from calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) to Rapamune in maintenance renal
 transplant patients 6-120 months post-transplant, increased urinary protein excretion was
 commonly observed from 6 through 24 months after conversion to Rapamune compared with
 CNI continuation [see Clinical Studies (14.4), Adverse Reactions (6.4)].
Patients with the
 greatest amount of urinary protein excretion prior to Rapamune conversion were those whose
 protein excretion increased the most after conversion.
New onset nephrosis (nephrotic
 Reference ID: 3272763 10
     syndrome) was also reported as a treatment-emergent adverse event in 2.2% of the Rapamune
 conversion group patients in comparison to 0.4% in the CNI continuation group of patients.
 Nephrotic range proteinuria (defined as urinary protein to creatinine ratio &gt; 3.5) was also
 reported in 9.2% in the Rapamune conversion group of patients in comparison to 3.7% in the
 CNI continuation group of patients.
In some patients, reduction in the degree of urinary protein
 excretion was observed for individual patients following discontinuation of Rapamune.
The
 safety and efficacy of conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune in maintenance renal
 transplant patients have not been established.
 5.10 Latent Viral Infections
 Immunosuppressed patients are at increased risk for opportunistic infections, including
 activation of latent viral infections.
These include BK virus-associated nephropathy, which has
 been observed in patients receiving immunosuppressants, including Rapamune.
This infection
 may be associated with serious outcomes, including deteriorating renal function and renal graft
 loss [see Adverse Reactions (6.6)].
Patient monitoring may help detect patients at risk for BK  virus-associated nephropathy.
Reduction in immunosuppression should be considered for
 patients who develop evidence of BK virus-associated nephropathy.
 Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), sometimes fatal have been
 reported in patients treated with immunosuppressants, including Rapamune.
PML commonly
 presents with hemiparesis, apathy, confusion, cognitive deficiencies and ataxia.
Risk factors for
 PML include treatment with immunosuppressant therapies and impairment of immune
 function.
In immunosuppressed patients, physicians should consider PML in the differential
 diagnosis in patients reporting neurological symptoms and consultation with a neurologist
 should be considered as clinically indicated.
Consideration should be given to reducing the
 amount of immunosuppression in patients who develop PML.
In transplant patients, physicians
 should also consider the risk that reduced immunosuppression represents to the graft.
 5.11 Interstitial Lung Disease
 Cases of interstitial lung disease (including pneumonitis, bronchiolitis obliterans organizing  pneumonia [BOOP], and pulmonary fibrosis), some fatal, with no identified infectious etiology
 have occurred in patients receiving immunosuppressive regimens including Rapamune.
In
 some cases, the interstitial lung disease has resolved upon discontinuation or dose reduction of
 Rapamune.
The risk may be increased as the trough sirolimus concentration increases [see
 Adverse Reactions (6.6)].
 5.12 De Novo Use Without Cyclosporine
 The safety and efficacy of de novo use of Rapamune without cyclosporine is not established in
 renal transplant patients.
In a multicenter clinical study, de novo renal transplant patients
 treated with Rapamune, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), steroids, and an IL-2 receptor
 antagonist had significantly higher acute rejection rates and numerically higher death rates
 compared to patients treated with cyclosporine, MMF, steroids, and IL-2 receptor antagonist.
A
 benefit, in terms of better renal function, was not apparent in the treatment arm with de novo
 Reference ID: 3272763 11
 use of Rapamune without cyclosporine.
These findings were also observed in a similar
 treatment group of another clinical trial.
 5.13 Increased Risk of Calcineurin Inhibitor-Induced Hemolytic Uremic  Syndrome/Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura/Thrombotic Microangiopathy  (HUS/TTP/TMA)
 The concomitant use of Rapamune with a calcineurin inhibitor may increase the risk of
 calcineurin inhibitor-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome/thrombotic thrombocytopenic  purpura/thrombotic microangiopathy (HUS/TTP/TMA) [see Adverse Reactions (6.6)].
 5.14 Antimicrobial Prophylaxis
 Cases of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia have been reported in patients not receiving
 antimicrobial prophylaxis.
Therefore, antimicrobial prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii  pneumonia should be administered for 1 year following transplantation.
 Cytomegalovirus (CMV) prophylaxis is recommended for 3 months after transplantation,
 particularly for patients at increased risk for CMV disease.
 5.15 Assay for Sirolimus Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
 Currently in clinical practice, sirolimus whole blood concentrations are being measured by
 various chromatographic and immunoassay methodologies.
Patient sample concentration
 values from different assays may not be interchangeable [see Dosage and Administration
 (2.3)].
 5.16 Skin Cancer Events
 Patients on immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk for skin cancer.
Exposure to
 sunlight and ultraviolet (UV) light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a
 sunscreen with a high protection factor.
 5.17 Interaction with Strong Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp
 Co-administration of Rapamune with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp (such as
 ketoconazole, voriconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, telithromycin, or clarithromycin) or
 strong inducers of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp (such as rifampin or rifabutin) is not recommended
 [see Drug Interactions (7)].
 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
 The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label.
 &#x2022; Increased susceptibility to infection, lymphoma, and malignancy [see Boxed Warning,
 Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]
 &#x2022; Excess mortality, graft loss, and hepatic artery thrombosis in liver transplant patients
 [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]
 Reference ID: 3272763 12
 &#x2022; Bronchial anastomotic dehiscence in lung transplant patients [see Boxed Warning,
 Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]
 &#x2022; Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]
 &#x2022; Exfoliative dermatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]
 &#x2022; Angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]
 &#x2022; Fluid Accumulation and Wound Healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]
 &#x2022; Hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]
 &#x2022; Decline in renal function in long-term combination of cyclosporine with Rapamune [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]
 &#x2022; Proteinuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]
 &#x2022; Interstitial lung disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]
 &#x2022;  Increased risk of calcineurin inhibitor-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome/thrombotic  thrombocytopenic purpura/thrombotic microangiopathy (HUS/TTP/TMA) [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.13)].
 The most common (&#x2265; 30%) adverse reactions observed with Rapamune in clinical studies are:
 peripheral edema, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, creatinine  increased, constipation, abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache, fever, urinary tract infection,
 anemia, nausea, arthralgia, pain, and thrombocytopenia.
 The following adverse reactions resulted in a rate of discontinuation of &gt; 5% in clinical trials:
 creatinine increased, hypertriglyceridemia, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP).
 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience in Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection Following Renal  Transplantation
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune Oral Solution for the prevention of organ rejection  following renal transplantation were assessed in two randomized, double-blind, multicenter,
 controlled trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1)].
The safety profiles in the two studies were
 similar.
 The incidence of adverse reactions in the randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-
controlled trial (Study 2) in which 219 renal transplant patients received Rapamune Oral
 Solution 2 mg/day, 208 received Rapamune Oral Solution 5 mg/day, and 124 received placebo
 is presented in the table below.
The study population had a mean age of 46 years (range 15 to
 71 years), the distribution was 67% male, and the composition by race was: White (78%),
 Black (11%), Asian (3%), Hispanic (2%), and Other (5%).
All patients were treated with
 cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
Data (&#x2265; 12 months post-transplant) presented in the following
 table show the adverse reactions that occurred in at least one of the Rapamune treatment groups
 with an incidence of &#x2265; 20%.
 The safety profile of the tablet did not differ from that of the oral solution formulation [see
 Clinical Studies (14.1)].
 Reference ID: 3272763  13
    In general, adverse reactions related to the administration of Rapamune were dependent on
 dose/concentration.
Although a daily maintenance dose of 5 mg, with a loading dose of 15 mg,
 was shown to be safe and effective, no efficacy advantage over the 2 mg dose could be
 established for renal transplant patients.
Patients receiving 2 mg of Rapamune Oral Solution
 per day demonstrated an overall better safety profile than did patients receiving 5 mg of
 Rapamune Oral Solution per day.
 Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates
 observed in one clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical
 trials of the same or another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice.
 ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING AT A FREQUENCY OF &#x2265; 20% IN AT LEAST
 ONE OF THE RAPAMUNE TREATMENT GROUPS IN A STUDY OF PROPHYLAXIS  OF ORGAN REJECTION FOLLOWING RENAL TRANSPLANTATION (%) AT &#x2265; 12
 MONTHS POST-TRANSPLANTATION (STUDY 2)a
  &#x20ac;&#x201c;&#x20ac;&#x201c;&#x20ac;&#x201c;Rapamune Oral Solution&#x20ac;&#x201c;&#x20ac;&#x201c;&#x20ac;&#x201c;
 2 mg/day 5 mg/day Placebo
 Adverse Reaction (n = 218) (n = 208) (n = 124)
 Peripheral edema 54 58 48
 Hypertriglyceridemia 45 57 23
 Hypertension 45 49 48
 Hypercholesterolemia 43 46 23
 Creatinine increased 39 40 38
 Constipation 36 38 31
 Abdominal pain 29 36 30
 Diarrhea 25 35 27
 Headache 34 34 31
 Fever 23 34 35
 Urinary tract infection 26 33 26
 Anemia 23 33 21
 Nausea 25 31 29
 Arthralgia 25 31 18
 Thrombocytopenia 14 30 9
 Pain 33 29 25
 Acne 22 22 19
 Rash 10 20 6
 Edema 20 18 15
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently (&#x2265; 3%, but &lt; 20%)
 &#x2022; Body as a Whole - Sepsis, lymphocele, herpes zoster, herpes simplex.
 &#x2022; Cardiovascular - Venous thromboembolism (including pulmonary embolism, deep  venous thrombosis), tachycardia.
 Reference ID: 3272763 14
 &#x2022; Digestive System - Stomatitis.
 &#x2022; Hematologic and Lymphatic System - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS), leukopenia.
 &#x2022; Metabolic/Nutritional - Abnormal healing, increased lactic dehydrogenase (LDH),
 hypokalemia.
 &#x2022; Musculoskeletal System - Bone necrosis.
 &#x2022; Respiratory System - Pneumonia, epistaxis.
 &#x2022; Skin - Melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma.
 &#x2022; Urogenital System - Pyelonephritis, decline in renal function (creatinine increased) in
 long-term combination of cyclosporine with Rapamune [see Warnings and Precautions
 (5.8)], ovarian cysts, menstrual disorders (including amenorrhea and menorrhagia).
 Less frequently (&lt; 3%) occurring adverse reactions included: lymphoma/post-transplant
 lymphoproliferative disorder, mycobacterial infections (including M. tuberculosis),
 pancreatitis, cytomegalovirus (CMV), and Epstein-Barr virus.
 Increased Serum Cholesterol and Triglycerides
 The use of Rapamune in renal transplant patients was associated with increased serum  cholesterol and triglycerides that may require treatment.
 In Studies 1 and 2, in de novo renal transplant patients who began the study with fasting, total
 serum cholesterol &lt; 200 mg/dL or fasting, total serum triglycerides &lt; 200 mg/dL, there was an
 increased incidence of hypercholesterolemia (fasting serum cholesterol &gt; 240 mg/dL) or
 hypertriglyceridemia (fasting serum triglycerides &gt; 500 mg/dL), respectively, in patients
 receiving both Rapamune 2 mg and Rapamune 5 mg compared with azathioprine and placebo
 controls.
 Treatment of new-onset hypercholesterolemia with lipid-lowering agents was required in
 42-52% of patients enrolled in the Rapamune arms of Studies 1 and 2 compared with 16% of
 patients in the placebo arm and 22% of patients in the azathioprine arm.
In other Rapamune
 renal transplant studies, up to 90% of patients required treatment for hyperlipidemia and
 hypercholesterolemia with anti-lipid therapy (e.g., statins, fibrates).
Despite anti-lipid
 management, up to 50% of patients had fasting serum cholesterol levels &gt;240 mg/dL and
 triglycerides above recommended target levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].
 Abnormal Healing
 Abnormal healing events following transplant surgery include fascial dehiscence, incisional  hernia, and anastomosis disruption (e.g., wound, vascular, airway, ureteral, biliary).
 Malignancies
 The table below summarizes the incidence of malignancies in the two controlled trials (Studies
 1 and 2) for the prevention of acute rejection [see Clinical Studies (14.1)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 15
         At 24 months (Study 1) and 36 months (Study 2), there were no significant differences among
 treatment groups.
 INCIDENCE (%) OF MALIGNANCIES IN STUDY 1 (24 MONTHS) AND STUDY 2 (36
 MONTHS) POST-TRANSPLANTa,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Azathioprine
 Oral Solution Oral Solution 2-3
 2 mg/day 5 mg/day mg/kg/day Placebo
 Study 1 Study 2 Study 1 Study 2
 (n = (n = (n = (n = Study 1 Study 2
 Malignancy 284) 227) 274) 219) (n = 161) (n = 130)
 Lymphoma/ 0.7 1.8 1.1 3.2 0.6 0.8
 lymphoproliferative disease
 Skin Carcinoma
 Any Squamous Cellc
 0.4 2.7 2.2 0.9 3.8 3.0
 Any Basal Cellc
 0.7 2.2 1.5 1.8 2.5 5.3
 Melanoma 0.0 0.4 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0
 Miscellaneous/Not 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8
 Specified
 Total 1.1 4.4 3.3 4.1 4.3 7.7
 Other Malignancy 1.1 2.2 1.5 1.4 0.6 2.3
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 c: Patients may be counted in more than one category.
 6.2 Rapamune Following Cyclosporine Withdrawal
 The incidence of adverse reactions was determined through 36 months in a randomized,
 multicenter, controlled trial (Study 3) in which 215 renal transplant patients received
 Rapamune as a maintenance regimen following cyclosporine withdrawal, and 215 patients
 received Rapamune with cyclosporine therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2)].
All patients were
 treated with corticosteroids.
The safety profile prior to randomization (start of cyclosporine
 withdrawal) was similar to that of the 2 mg Rapamune groups in Studies 1 and 2.
 Following randomization (at 3 months), patients who had cyclosporine eliminated from their
 therapy experienced higher incidences of the following adverse reactions: abnormal liver  function tests (including increased AST/SGOT and increased ALT/SGPT), hypokalemia,
 thrombocytopenia, and abnormal healing.
Conversely, the incidence of the following adverse
 events was higher in patients who remained on cyclosporine than those who had cyclosporine
 withdrawn from therapy: hypertension, cyclosporine toxicity, increased creatinine, abnormal  kidney function, toxic nephropathy, edema, hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia, and gum  hyperplasia.
Mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure improved significantly following
 cyclosporine withdrawal.
 Reference ID: 3272763 16
         Malignancies
 The incidence of malignancies in Study 3 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] is presented in the table
 following.
 In Study 3, the incidence of lymphoma/lymphoproliferative disease was similar in all treatment
 groups.
The overall incidence of malignancy was higher in patients receiving Rapamune plus
 cyclosporine compared with patients who had cyclosporine withdrawn.
Conclusions regarding
 these differences in the incidence of malignancy could not be made because Study 3 was not
 designed to consider malignancy risk factors or systematically screen subjects for malignancy.
 In addition, more patients in the Rapamune with cyclosporine group had a pretransplantation
 history of skin carcinoma.
 INCIDENCE (%) OF MALIGNANCIES IN STUDY 3 (CYCLOSPORINE
 WITHDRAWAL STUDY) AT 36 MONTHS POST-TRANSPLANTa,b
  Rapamune Rapamune
 with Cyclosporine Following Cyclosporine
 Nonrandomized Therapy Withdrawal
 Malignancy (n = 95) (n = 215) (n = 215)
 Lymphoma/ 1.1 1.4 0.5
 lymphoproliferative disease
 Skin Carcinoma
 Any Squamous Cellc
 3.2 3.3 2.3
 Any Basal Cellc
 3.2 6.5 2.3
 Melanoma 0.0 0.5 0.0
 Miscellaneous/Not 1.1 0.9 0.0
 Specified
 Total 4.2 7.9 3.7
 Other Malignancy 3.2 3.3 1.9
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 c: Patients may be counted in more than one category.
 6.3 High-Immunologic Risk Patients
 Safety was assessed in 224 patients who received at least one dose of sirolimus with
 cyclosporine [see Clinical Studies (14.3)].
Overall, the incidence and nature of adverse events
 was similar to those seen in previous combination studies with Rapamune.
The incidence of
 malignancy was 1.3% at 12 months.
 Reference ID: 3272763 17
     6.4 Conversion from Calcineurin Inhibitors to Rapamune in Maintenance Renal
 Transplant Population
 The safety and efficacy of conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune in maintenance
 renal transplant population have not been established [see Clinical Studies (14.4)].
In a study
 evaluating the safety and efficacy of conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune
 (initial target sirolimus concentrations of 12-20 ng/mL, and then 8-20 ng/mL, by
 chromatographic assay) in maintenance renal transplant patients, enrollment was stopped in the
 subset of patients (n = 87) with a baseline glomerular filtration rate of less than 40 mL/min.
 There was a higher rate of serious adverse events, including pneumonia, acute rejection, graft  loss and death, in this stratum of the Rapamune treatment arm.
 The subset of patients with a baseline glomerular filtration rate of less than 40 mL/min had 2
 years of follow-up after randomization.
In this population, the rate of pneumonia was 15/58 vs.
 4/29, graft loss (excluding death with functioning graft loss) was 13/58 vs. 9/29, and death was
 9/58 vs. 1/29 in the sirolimus conversion group and CNI continuation group, respectively.
 In the subset of patients with a baseline glomerular filtration rate of greater than 40 mL/min,
 there was no benefit associated with conversion with regard to improvement in renal function
 and a greater incidence of proteinuria in the Rapamune conversion arm.
 Overall in this study, a 5-fold increase in the reports of tuberculosis among sirolimus (11/551)
 and comparator (1/273) treatment groups was observed with 2:1 randomization scheme.
 6.5 Pediatrics
 Safety was assessed in a controlled clinical trial in pediatric (&lt; 18 years of age) renal transplant
 patients considered at high-immunologic risk, defined as a history of one or more acute
 allograft rejection episodes and/or the presence of chronic allograft nephropathy on a renal
 biopsy [see Clinical Studies (14.6)].
The use of Rapamune in combination with calcineurin  inhibitors and corticosteroids was associated with a higher incidence of deterioration of renal  function (creatinine increased) compared to calcineurin inhibitor-based therapy, serum lipid  abnormalities (including, but not limited to, increased serum triglycerides and cholesterol), and
 urinary tract infections.
 6.6 Postmarketing Experience
 The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Rapamune.
 Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not
 always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug
 exposure.
 &#x2022; Body as a Whole - Lymphedema.
 &#x2022; Cardiovascular - Pericardial effusion (including hemodynamically significant effusions
 and tamponade requiring intervention in children and adults) and fluid accumulation.
 &#x2022; Digestive System - Ascites.
 Reference ID: 3272763 18
 &#x2022;  Hematological/Lymphatic - The concomitant use of Rapamune with a calcineurin
 inhibitor may increase the risk of calcineurin inhibitor-induced HUS/TTP/TMA [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]; pancytopenia, neutropenia.
 &#x2022;  Hepatobiliary Disorders - Hepatotoxicity, including fatal hepatic necrosis, with elevated
 sirolimus trough concentrations.
 &#x2022;  Immune System - Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid  reactions, angioedema, and hypersensitivity vasculitis [see Warnings and Precautions
 (5.4)].
 &#x2022;  Infections - Tuberculosis.
BK virus associated nephropathy has been observed in
 patients receiving immunosuppressants, including Rapamune.
This infection may be
 associated with serious outcomes, including deteriorating renal function and renal graft
 loss.
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), sometimes fatal, have
 been reported in patients treated with immunosuppressants, including Rapamune [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.10)].
Clostridium difficile enterocolitis.
 &#x2022;  Metabolic/Nutritional - Liver function test abnormal, AST/SGOT increased,
 ALT/SGPT increased, hypophosphatemia, hyperglycemia.
 &#x2022;  Respiratory - Cases of interstitial lung disease (including pneumonitis, bronchiolitis  obliterans organizing pneumonia [BOOP], and pulmonary fibrosis), some fatal, with no
 identified infectious etiology have occurred in patients receiving immunosuppressive
 regimens including Rapamune.
In some cases, the interstitial lung disease has resolved
 upon discontinuation or dose reduction of Rapamune.
The risk may be increased as the
 sirolimus trough concentration increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)];
 pulmonary hemorrhage; pleural effusion; alveolar proteinosis.
 &#x2022; Skin - Exfoliative dermatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)].
 &#x2022; Urogenital - Nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis,
 ovarian cysts, menstrual disorders (including amenorrhea and menorrhagia).
 Azoospermia has been reported with the use of Rapamune and has been reversible upon
 discontinuation of Rapamune in most cases.
 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
 Sirolimus is known to be a substrate for both cytochrome P-450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and
 p-glycoprotein (P-gp).
Inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp may decrease sirolimus concentrations
 whereas inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp may increase sirolimus concentrations.
 7.1 Use with Cyclosporine
 Cyclosporine, a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, was demonstrated to increase
 sirolimus concentrations when co-administered with sirolimus.
In order to diminish the effect
 of this interaction with cyclosporine, it is recommended that Rapamune be taken 4 hours after
 administration of cyclosporine oral solution (MODIFIED) and/or cyclosporine capsules
 (MODIFIED).
If cyclosporine is withdrawn from combination therapy with Rapamune, higher
 doses of Rapamune are needed to maintain the recommended sirolimus trough concentration
 ranges [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 Reference ID: 3272763  19
   7.2 Strong Inducers and Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp
 Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus with strong inducers (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin) and strong
 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, voriconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, telithromycin,
 clarithromycin) of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Alternative agents with lesser interaction potential with
 sirolimus should be considered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Clinical Pharmacology
 (12.3)].
 7.3 Grapefruit Juice
 Because grapefruit juice inhibits the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of sirolimus, it must not be
 taken with or be used for dilution of Rapamune [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Drug
 Interactions (7.3), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 7.4 Inducers or Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp
 Exercise caution when using sirolimus with drugs or agents that are modulators of CYP3A4
 and P-gp.
The dosage of Rapamune and/or the co-administered drug may need to be adjusted
 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 &#x2022; Drugs that could increase sirolimus blood concentrations:
 Bromocriptione, cimetidine, cisapride, clotrimazole, danazol, diltiazem, fluconazole,
 protease inhibitors (e.g., HIV and hepatitis C that include drugs such as ritonavir,
 indinavir, boceprevir, and telaprevir), metoclopramide, nicardipine, troleandomycin,
 verapamil
 &#x2022; Drugs and other agents that could decrease sirolimus concentrations:
 Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifapentine, St. John's Wort (Hypericum
 perforatum)
 &#x2022; Drugs with concentrations that could increase when given with Rapamune:
 Verapamil
 7.5 Vaccination
 Immunosuppressants may affect response to vaccination.
Therefore, during treatment with
 Rapamune, vaccination may be less effective.
The use of live vaccines should be avoided; live
 vaccines may include, but are not limited to, the following: measles, mumps, rubella, oral
 polio, BCG, yellow fever, varicella, and TY21a typhoid.
 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
 8.1 Pregnancy
 Pregnancy Category C: Sirolimus was embryo/fetotoxic in rats when given in doses
 approximately 0.2 to 0.5 the human doses (adjusted for body surface area).
Embryo/fetotoxicity
 was manifested as mortality and reduced fetal weights (with associated delays in skeletal
 ossification).
However, no teratogenesis was evident.
In combination with cyclosporine, rats
 had increased embryo/feto mortality compared with sirolimus alone.
There were no effects on
 Reference ID: 3272763 20
 rabbit development at a maternally toxic dosage approximately 0.3 to 0.8 times the human
 doses (adjusted for body surface area).
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in
 pregnant women.
Effective contraception must be initiated before Rapamune therapy, during
 Rapamune therapy, and for 12 weeks after Rapamune therapy has been stopped.
Rapamune
 should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the
 embryo/fetus.
 8.3 Nursing Mothers
 Sirolimus is excreted in trace amounts in milk of lactating rats.
It is not known whether
 sirolimus is excreted in human milk.
The pharmacokinetic and safety profiles of sirolimus in
 infants are not known.
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, and because of the
 potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from sirolimus, a decision should be made
 whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of
 the drug to the mother.
 8.4 Pediatric Use
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune in pediatric patients &lt; 13 years have not been established.
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune Oral Solution and Rapamune Tablets have been
 established in children &#x2265; 13 years judged to be at low- to moderate-immunologic risk.
Use of
 Rapamune Oral Solution and Rapamune Tablets in this subpopulation of children &#x2265; 13 years is
 supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled trials of Rapamune Oral Solution in
 adults with additional pharmacokinetic data in pediatric renal transplantation patients [see
 Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 Safety and efficacy information from a controlled clinical trial in pediatric and adolescent (&lt; 18
 years of age) renal transplant patients judged to be at high-immunologic risk, defined as a
 history of one or more acute rejection episodes and/or the presence of chronic allograft
 nephropathy, do not support the chronic use of Rapamune Oral Solution or Tablets in
 combination with calcineurin inhibitors and corticosteroids, due to the higher incidence of lipid
 abnormalities and deterioration of renal function associated with these immunosuppressive
 regimens compared to calcineurin inhibitors, without increased benefit with respect to acute
 rejection, graft survival, or patient survival [see Clinical Studies (14.6)].
 8.5 Geriatric Use
 Clinical studies of Rapamune Oral Solution or Tablets did not include sufficient numbers of
 patients &#x2265; 65 years to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients.
Data
 pertaining to sirolimus trough concentrations suggest that dose adjustments based upon age in
 geriatric renal patients are not necessary.
Differences in responses between the elderly and
 younger patients have not been identified.
In general, dose selection for an elderly patient
 should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater
 frequency of decreased hepatic, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug
 therapy.
 Reference ID: 3272763 21
 8.6 Patients with Hepatic Impairment
 The maintenance dose of Rapamune should be reduced in patients with hepatic impairment [see
 Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 8.7 Patients with Renal Impairment
 Dosage adjustment is not required in patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and
 Administration (2.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 10 OVERDOSAGE
 Reports of overdose with Rapamune have been received; however, experience has been limited.
 In general, the adverse effects of overdose are consistent with those listed in the adverse
 reactions section [see Adverse Reactions (6)].
 General supportive measures should be followed in all cases of overdose.
Based on the low
 aqueous solubility and high erythrocyte and plasma protein binding of sirolimus, it is
 anticipated that sirolimus is not dialyzable to any significant extent.
In mice and rats, the acute
 oral LD50 was greater than 800 mg/kg.
 11 DESCRIPTION
 Rapamune (sirolimus) is an immunosuppressive agent.
Sirolimus is a macrocyclic lactone
 produced by Streptomyces hygroscopicus.
The chemical name of sirolimus (also known as
 rapamycin) is (3S,6R,7E,9R,10R,12R,14S,15E,17E,19E,21S,23S,26R,27R,34aS)-
9,10,12,13,14,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,32,33,34, 34a-hexadecahydro-9,27-dihydroxy-3-[(1R)-2-
[(1S,3R,4R)-4-hydroxy-3-methoxycyclohexyl]-1-methylethyl]-10,21-dimethoxy-
6,8,12,14,20,26-hexamethyl-23,27-epoxy-3H-pyrido[2,1-c][1,4] oxaazacyclohentriacontine-
1,5,11,28,29 (4H,6H,31H)-pentone.
Its molecular formula is C51H79NO13 and its molecular
 weight is 914.2.
The structural formula of sirolimus is illustrated as follows.
 Sirolimus is a white to off-white powder and is insoluble in water, but freely soluble in benzyl
 alcohol, chloroform, acetone, and acetonitrile.
 Rapamune is available for administration as an oral solution containing 1 mg/mL sirolimus.
 Rapamune is also available as a tan, triangular-shaped tablet containing 0.5 mg sirolimus, as a
 Reference ID: 3272763 22
   white, triangular-shaped tablet containing 1 mg sirolimus, and as a yellow-to-beige triangular-
shaped tablet containing 2 mg sirolimus.
 The inactive ingredients in Rapamune Oral Solution are Phosal 50 PG
 (phosphatidylcholine,
 propylene glycol, mono- and di-glycerides, ethanol, soy fatty acids, and ascorbyl palmitate) and
 polysorbate 80.
Rapamune Oral Solution contains 1.5% - 2.5% ethanol.
 The inactive ingredients in Rapamune Tablets include sucrose, lactose, polyethylene glycol  8000, calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, pharmaceutical glaze, talc, titanium dioxide,
 magnesium stearate, povidone, poloxamer 188, polyethylene glycol 20,000, glyceryl  monooleate, carnauba wax, dl-alpha tocopherol, and other ingredients.
The 0.5 mg and 2 mg
 dosage strengths also contain yellow iron (ferric) oxide and brown iron (ferric) oxide.
 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
 12.1 Mechanism of Action
 Sirolimus inhibits T-lymphocyte activation and proliferation that occurs in response to
 antigenic and cytokine (Interleukin [IL]-2, IL-4, and IL-15) stimulation by a mechanism that is
 distinct from that of other immunosuppressants.
Sirolimus also inhibits antibody production.
In
 cells, sirolimus binds to the immunophilin, FK Binding Protein-12 (FKBP-12), to generate an
 immunosuppressive complex.
The sirolimus:FKBP-12 complex has no effect on calcineurin
 activity.
This complex binds to and inhibits the activation of the mammalian Target Of
 Rapamycin (mTOR), a key regulatory kinase.
This inhibition suppresses cytokine-driven T-cell
 proliferation, inhibiting the progression from the G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle.
 Studies in experimental models show that sirolimus prolongs allograft (kidney, heart, skin,
 islet, small bowel, pancreatico-duodenal, and bone marrow) survival in mice, rats, pigs, and/or
 primates.
Sirolimus reverses acute rejection of heart and kidney allografts in rats and prolongs
 the graft survival in presensitized rats.
In some studies, the immunosuppressive effect of
 sirolimus lasts up to 6 months after discontinuation of therapy.
This tolerization effect is
 alloantigen-specific.
 In rodent models of autoimmune disease, sirolimus suppresses immune-mediated events
 associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, collagen-induced arthritis, autoimmune type I
 diabetes, autoimmune myocarditis, experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, graft-versus-host
 disease, and autoimmune uveoretinitis.
 12.2 Pharmacodynamics
 Orally-administered Rapamune, at doses of 2 mg/day and 5 mg/day, significantly reduced the
 incidence of organ rejection in low- to moderate-immunologic risk renal transplant patients at
 6 months following transplantation compared with either azathioprine or placebo [see Clinical
 Studies (14.1)].
There was no demonstrable efficacy advantage of a daily maintenance dose of
 5 mg with a loading dose of 15 mg over a daily maintenance dose of 2 mg with a loading dose
 of 6 mg.
Therapeutic drug monitoring should be used to maintain sirolimus drug levels within
 the target-range [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 23
 12.3 Pharmacokinetics
 Sirolimus pharmacokinetics activity have been determined following oral administration in
 healthy subjects, pediatric patients, hepatically impaired patients, and renal transplant patients.
 The pharmacokinetic parameters of sirolimus in low- to moderate-immunologic risk adult renal
 transplant patients following multiple dosing with Rapamune 2 mg daily, in combination with
 cyclosporine and corticosteroids, is summarized in the following table.
 MEAN  SD STEADY STATE SIROLIMUS PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS IN
 LOW- TO MODERATE-IMMUNOLOGIC RISK ADULT RENAL TRANSPLANT
 PATIENTS FOLLOWING RAPAMUNE 2 MG DAILYa,b
  Multiple
 Dose (daily dose)
 Solution Tablets
 Cmax (ng/mL) 14.4  5.3 15.0  4.9
 tmax (hr) 2.1  0.8 3.5  2.4
 AUC (ng&#x2022;h/mL) 194  78 230  67
 Cmin (ng/mL)c
 7.1  3.5 7.6  3.1
 CL/F (mL/h/kg) 173  50 139  63
 a: In presence of cyclosporine administered 4 hours before Rapamune dosing.
 b: Based on data collected at months 1 and 3 post-transplantation.
 c: Average Cmin over 6 months.
 Whole blood trough sirolimus concentrations, as measured by LC/MS/MS in renal transplant
 patients, were significantly correlated with AUC&#x201e;,ss.
Upon repeated, twice-daily administration
 without an initial loading dose in a multiple-dose study, the average trough concentration of
 sirolimus increases approximately 2- to 3-fold over the initial 6 days of therapy, at which time
 steady-state is reached.
A loading dose of 3 times the maintenance dose will provide near
 steady-state concentrations within 1 day in most patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.3),
 Warning and Precautions (5.15)].
 Absorption
 Following administration of Rapamune Oral Solution, the mean times to peak concentration
 (tmax) of sirolimus are approximately 1 hour and 2 hours in healthy subjects and renal transplant
 patients, respectively.
The systemic availability of sirolimus is low, and was estimated to be
 approximately 14% after the administration of Rapamune Oral Solution.
In healthy subjects,
 the mean bioavailability of sirolimus after administration of the tablet is approximately 27%
 higher relative to the solution.
Sirolimus tablets are not bioequivalent to the solution; however,
 clinical equivalence has been demonstrated at the 2 mg dose level.
Sirolimus concentrations,
 following the administration of Rapamune Oral Solution to stable renal transplant patients, are
 dose-proportional between 3 and 12 mg/m2.
 Reference ID: 3272763 24
   Food Effects
 To minimize variability in sirolimus concentrations, both Rapamune Oral Solution and Tablets
 should be taken consistently with or without food [see Dosage and Administration (2)].
In
 healthy subjects, a high-fat meal (861.8 kcal, 54.9% kcal from fat) increased the mean total
 exposure (AUC) of sirolimus by 23 to 35%, compared with fasting.
The effect of food on the
 mean sirolimus Cmax was inconsistent depending on the Rapamune dosage form evaluated.
 Distribution
 The mean ( SD) blood-to-plasma ratio of sirolimus was 36  18 in stable renal allograft
 patients, indicating that sirolimus is extensively partitioned into formed blood elements.
The
 mean volume of distribution (Vss/F) of sirolimus is 12  8 L/kg.
Sirolimus is extensively
 bound (approximately 92%) to human plasma proteins, mainly serum albumin (97%), 1-acid
 glycoprotein, and lipoproteins.
 Metabolism
 Sirolimus is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Sirolimus is extensively metabolized in the
 intestinal wall and liver and undergoes counter-transport from enterocytes of the small intestine
 into the gut lumen.
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp increase sirolimus concentrations.
Inducers
 of CYP3A4 and P-gp decrease sirolimus concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)
 and Drug Interactions (7)].
Sirolimus is extensively metabolized by O-demethylation and/or
 hydroxylation.
Seven (7) major metabolites, including hydroxy, demethyl, and
 hydroxydemethyl, are identifiable in whole blood.
Some of these metabolites are also
 detectable in plasma, fecal, and urine samples.
Sirolimus is the major component in human
 whole blood and contributes to more than 90% of the immunosuppressive activity.
 Excretion
 After a single dose of [14
C] sirolimus oral solution in healthy volunteers, the majority (91%) of
 radioactivity was recovered from the feces, and only a minor amount (2.2%) was excreted in
 urine.
The mean  SD terminal elimination half life (t) of sirolimus after multiple dosing in
 stable renal transplant patients was estimated to be about 62  16 hours.
 Sirolimus Concentrations (Chromatographic Equivalent) Observed in Phase 3 Clinical Studies
 The following sirolimus concentrations (chromatographic equivalent) were observed in phase 3
 clinical studies [see Clinical Studies (14)].
 Reference ID: 3272763 25
   SIROLIMUS WHOLE BLOOD TROUGH CONCENTRATIONS OBSERVED IN
 RENAL TRANSPLANT PATIENTS ENROLLED IN PHASE 3 STUDIES
 Year 1 Year 3
 Patient
 Population(Study
 number)
 Treatment Mean
 (ng/mL)
 10th
 - 90th
 percentiles
 (ng/mL)
 Mean
 (ng/mL)
 10th
 - 90th
 percentiles
 (ng/mL)
 Low-to-moderate
 risk
 (Studies 1 &amp; 2)
 Rapamune
 (2 mg/day) +
 CsA
 7.2 3.6 - 11 &#x20ac;&#x201c; &#x20ac;&#x201c;
 Rapamune
 (5 mg/day) +
 CsA
 14 8 - 22 &#x20ac;&#x201c; &#x20ac;&#x201c;
 Low-to-moderate
 risk
 Rapamune +
 CsA
 8.6 5 - 13a
 9.1 5.4 - 14
 (Study 3) Rapamune
 alone
 19 14 - 22a
 16 11 - 22
 High risk
 (Study 4)
 Rapamune +
 CsA
 15.7
 11.8
 11.5
 5.4 - 27.3b
 6.2 - 16.9c
 6.3 - 17.3d
 &#x20ac;&#x201c; &#x20ac;&#x201c;
 a: Months 4 through 12
 b: Up to Week 2; observed CsA Cmin was 217 (56 - 432) ng/mL
 c: Week 2 to Week 26; observed CsA Cmin range was 174 (71 - 288) ng/mL
 d: Week 26 to Week 52; observed CsA Cmin was 136 (54.5 - 218) ng/mL
 The withdrawal of cyclosporine and concurrent increases in sirolimus trough concentrations to
 steady-state required approximately 6 weeks.
Following cyclosporine withdrawal, larger
 Rapamune doses were required due to the absence of the inhibition of sirolimus metabolism
 and transport by cyclosporine and to achieve higher target sirolimus trough concentrations
 during concentration-controlled administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug
 Interactions (7.1)].
 Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations
 Hepatic Impairment
 Rapamune was administered as a single, oral dose to subjects with normal hepatic function and
 to patients with Child-Pugh classification A (mild), B (moderate), or C (severe) hepatic
 impairment.
Compared with the values in the normal hepatic function group, the patients with
 mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment had 43%, 94%, and 189% higher mean values
 for sirolimus AUC, respectively, with no statistically significant differences in mean Cmax.
As
 the severity of hepatic impairment increased, there were steady increases in mean sirolimus t1/2,
 and decreases in the mean sirolimus clearance normalized for body weight (CL/F/kg).
 The maintenance dose of Rapamune should be reduced by approximately one third in patients
 with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment and by approximately one half in patients with
 severe hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)].
It is not necessary to modify
 Reference ID: 3272763 26
   the Rapamune loading dose in patients with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment.
 Therapeutic drug monitoring is necessary in all patients with hepatic impairment [see Dosage
 and Administration (2.3)].
 Renal Impairment
 The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sirolimus is not known.
However,
 there is minimal (2.2%) renal excretion of the drug or its metabolites in healthy volunteers.
The
 loading and the maintenance doses of Rapamune need not be adjusted in patients with renal
 impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)].
 Pediatric
 Sirolimus pharmacokinetic data were collected in concentration-controlled trials of pediatric
 renal transplant patients who were also receiving cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
The target
 ranges for trough concentrations were either 10-20 ng/mL for the 21 children receiving tablets,
 or 5-15 ng/mL for the one child receiving oral solution.
The children aged 6-11 years (n = 8)
 received mean  SD doses of 1.75  0.71 mg/day (0.064  0.018 mg/kg, 1.65  0.43 mg/m2).
 The children aged 12-18 years (n = 14) received mean  SD doses of 2.79  1.25 mg/day
 (0.053  0.0150 mg/kg, 1.86  0.61 mg/m2).
At the time of sirolimus blood sampling for
 pharmacokinetic evaluation, the majority (80%) of these pediatric patients received the
 Rapamune dose at 16 hours after the once-daily cyclosporine dose.
 SIROLIMUS PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS (MEAN  SD) IN PEDIATRIC
 RENAL TRANSPLANT PATIENTS (MULTIPLE-DOSE CONCENTRATION
 CONTROL)a,b
  Body
 Age n weight Cmax,ss tmax,ss Cmin,ss AUC&#x201a;,ss CL/Fc
 CL/Fc
 (y) (kg) (ng/mL) (h) (ng/ml) (ng&#x2022;h/mL) (mL/h/kg) (L/h/m2)
 6-11 8 27  10 22.1  8.9 5.88  10.6  4.3 356  127 214  129 5.4  2.8
 4.05
 12-18 14 52  15 34.5  12.2 2.7  1.5 14.7  8.6 466  236 136  57 4.7  1.9
 a: Rapamune co-administered with cyclosporine oral solution [MODIFIED] (e.g., Neoral
 Oral
 Solution) and/or cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED] (e.g., Neoral
 Soft Gelatin Capsules).
 b: As measured by Liquid Chromatographic/Tandem Mass Spectrometric Method (LC/MS/MS)
 c: Oral-dose clearance adjusted by either body weight (kg) or body surface area (m2).
 The table below summarizes pharmacokinetic data obtained in pediatric dialysis patients with
 chronically impaired renal function.
 Reference ID: 3272763 27
 SIROLIMUS PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS (MEAN  SD) IN PEDIATRIC
 PATIENTS WITH END-STAGE KIDNEY DISEASE MAINTAINED ON
 HEMODIALYSIS OR PERITONEAL DIALYSIS (1, 3, 9, 15 mg/m2
 SINGLE DOSE)*
 Age Group (y) n tmax (h) t1/2 (h) CL/F/WT (mL/h/kg)
 5-11 9 1.1  0.5 71  40 580  450
  12-18 11 0.79  0.17 55  18 450  232
  * All subjects received Rapamune Oral Solution.
 Geriatric
 Clinical studies of Rapamune did not include a sufficient number of patients &gt; 65 years of age
 to determine whether they will respond differently than younger patients.
After the
 administration of Rapamune Oral Solution or Tablets, sirolimus trough concentration data in
 renal transplant patients &gt; 65 years of age were similar to those in the adult population 18 to 65
 years of age.
 Gender
 Sirolimus clearance in males was 12% lower than that in females; male subjects had a
 significantly longer t1/2 than did female subjects (72.3 hours versus 61.3 hours).
Dose
 adjustments based on gender are not recommended.
 Race
 In the phase 3 trials using Rapamune solution or tablets and cyclosporine oral solution
 [MODIFIED] (e.g., Neoral
 Oral Solution) and/or cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED] (e.g.,
 Neoral
 Soft Gelatin Capsules) [see Clinical Studies (14)], there were no significant differences
 in mean trough sirolimus concentrations over time between Black (n = 190) and non-Black (n =
 852) patients during the first 6 months after transplantation.
 Drug-Drug Interactions
 Sirolimus is known to be a substrate for both cytochrome CYP3A4 and P-gp.
The
 pharmacokinetic interaction between sirolimus and concomitantly administered drugs is
 discussed below.
Drug interaction studies have not been conducted with drugs other than those
 described below.
 Cyclosporine: Cyclosporine is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Sirolimus should
 be taken 4 hours after administration of cyclosporine oral solution (MODIFIED) and/or
 cyclosporine capsules (MODIFIED).
Sirolimus concentrations may decrease when
 cyclosporine is discontinued, unless the Rapamune dose is increased [see Dosage and
 Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7.1)].
 In a single-dose drug-drug interaction study, 24 healthy volunteers were administered 10 mg
 Rapamune Tablets either simultaneously or 4 hours after a 300-mg dose of Neoral
 Soft
 Gelatin Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]).
For simultaneous administration,
 mean Cmax and AUC were increased by 512% and 148%, respectively, relative to
 Reference ID: 3272763 28
   administration of sirolimus alone.
However, when given 4 hours after cyclosporine
 administration, sirolimus Cmax and AUC were both increased by only 33% compared with
 administration of sirolimus alone.
 In a single dose drug-drug interaction study, 24 healthy volunteers were administered 10 mg
 Rapamune Oral Solution either simultaneously or 4 hours after a 300 mg dose of Neoral
 Soft
 Gelatin Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]).
For simultaneous administration, the
 mean Cmax and AUC of sirolimus, following simultaneous administration were increased by
 116% and 230%, respectively, relative to administration of sirolimus alone.
However, when
 given 4 hours after Neoral
 Soft Gelatin Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED])
 administration, sirolimus Cmax and AUC were increased by only 37% and 80%, respectively,
 compared with administration of Rapamune alone.
 In a single-dose cross-over drug-drug interaction study, 33 healthy volunteers received 5 mg
 Rapamune Oral Solution alone, 2 hours before, and 2 hours after a 300 mg dose of Neoral
 Soft Gelatin Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]).
When given 2 hours before
 Neoral
 Soft Gelatin Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]) administration, sirolimus
 Cmax and AUC were comparable to those with administration of sirolimus alone.
However,
 when given 2 hours after, the mean Cmax and AUC of sirolimus were increased by 126% and
 141%, respectively, relative to administration of sirolimus alone.
 Mean cyclosporine Cmax and AUC were not significantly affected when Rapamune Oral
 Solution was given simultaneously or when administered 4 hours after Neoral
 Soft Gelatin
 Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]).
However, after multiple-dose administration
 of sirolimus given 4 hours after Neoral
 in renal post-transplant patients over 6 months,
 cyclosporine oral-dose clearance was reduced, and lower doses of Neoral
 Soft Gelatin
 Capsules (cyclosporine capsules [MODIFIED]) were needed to maintain target cyclosporine
 concentration.
 In a multiple-dose study in 150 psoriasis patients, sirolimus 0.5, 1.5, and 3 mg/m2/day was
 administered simultaneously with Sandimmune
 Oral Solution (cyclosporine Oral Solution)
 1.25 mg/kg/day.
The increase in average sirolimus trough concentrations ranged between 67%
 to 86% relative to when Rapamune was administered without cyclosporine.
The intersubject
 variability (% CV) for sirolimus trough concentrations ranged from 39.7% to 68.7%.
There was
 no significant effect of multiple-dose sirolimus on cyclosporine trough concentrations
 following Sandimmune
 Oral Solution (cyclosporine oral solution) administration.
However,
 the % CV was higher (range 85.9% - 165%) than those from previous studies.
 Diltiazem: Diltiazem is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp; sirolimus
 concentrations should be monitored and a dose adjustment may be necessary [see Drug
 Interactions (7.4)].
The simultaneous oral administration of 10 mg of sirolimus oral solution
 and 120 mg of diltiazem to 18 healthy volunteers significantly affected the bioavailability of
 sirolimus.
Sirolimus Cmax, tmax, and AUC were increased 1.4-, 1.3-, and 1.6-fold, respectively.
 Sirolimus did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either diltiazem or its metabolites
 desacetyldiltiazem and desmethyldiltiazem.
 Reference ID: 3272763 29
   Erythromycin: Erythromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp; co-
administration of sirolimus oral solution or tablets and erythromycin is not recommended [see
 Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Drug Interactions (7.2)].
The simultaneous oral
 administration of 2 mg daily of sirolimus oral solution and 800 mg q 8h of erythromycin as
 erythromycin ethylsuccinate tablets at steady state to 24 healthy volunteers significantly
 affected the bioavailability of sirolimus and erythromycin.
Sirolimus Cmax and AUC were
 increased 4.4- and 4.2-fold respectively and tmax was increased by 0.4 hr.
Erythromycin Cmax
 and AUC were increased 1.6- and 1.7-fold, respectively, and tmax was increased by 0.3 hr.
 Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp; co-administration of
 sirolimus oral solution or tablets and ketoconazole is not recommended [see Warnings and
 Precautions (5.17), Drug Interactions (7.2)].
Multiple-dose ketoconazole administration
 significantly affected the rate and extent of absorption and sirolimus exposure after
 administration of Rapamune Oral Solution, as reflected by increases in sirolimus Cmax, tmax, and
 AUC of 4.3-fold, 38%, and 10.9-fold, respectively.
However, the terminal t of sirolimus was
 not changed.
Single-dose sirolimus did not affect steady-state 12-hour plasma ketoconazole
 concentrations.
 Rifampin: Rifampin is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and P-gp; co-administration of Rapamune
 oral solution or tablets and rifampin is not recommended.
In patients where rifampin is
 indicated, alternative therapeutic agents with less enzyme induction potential should be
 considered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Drug Interactions (7.2)].
Pretreatment of 14
 healthy volunteers with multiple doses of rifampin, 600 mg daily for 14 days, followed by a
 single 20-mg dose of sirolimus oral solution, greatly decreased sirolimus AUC and Cmax by
 about 82% and 71%, respectively.
 Verapamil: Verapamil is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp; sirolimus
 concentrations should be monitored and a dose adjustment may be necessary; [see Drug
 Interactions (7.4)].
The simultaneous oral administration of 2 mg daily of sirolimus oral
 solution and 180 mg q 12h of verapamil at steady state to 26 healthy volunteers significantly
 affected the bioavailability of sirolimus and verapamil.
Sirolimus Cmax and AUC were
 increased 2.3- and 2.2-fold, respectively, without substantial change in tmax.
The Cmax and AUC
 of the pharmacologically active S(-) enantiomer of verapamil were both increased 1.5-fold and
 tmax was decreased by 1.2 hr.
 Drugs Which May Be Co-administered Without Dose Adjustment
 Clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were not observed in studies of
 drugs listed below.
Sirolimus and these drugs may be co-administered without dose
 adjustments.
 Acyclovir
 Atorvastatin
 Digoxin
 Glyburide
 Reference ID: 3272763 30
 Nifedipine
  Norgestrel/ethinyl estradiol (Lo/Ovral
)
  Prednisolone
  Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (Bactrim
)
  Other Drug-Drug Interactions
 Co-administration of Rapamune with other known strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp
 (such as voriconazole, itraconazole, telithromycin, or clarithromycin) or other known strong
 inducers of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp (such as rifabutin) is not recommended [see Warnings and
 Precautions (5.17), Drug Interactions (7.2)].
In patients in whom strong inhibitors or inducers
 of CYP3A4 are indicated, alternative therapeutic agents with less potential for inhibition or
 induction of CYP3A4 should be considered.
 Care should be exercised when drugs or other substances that are substrates and/or inhibitors or
 inducers of CYP3A4 are administered concomitantly with Rapamune.
Other drugs that have
 the potential to increase sirolimus blood concentrations include (but are not limited to):
 Calcium channel blockers: nicardipine.
  Antifungal agents: clotrimazole, fluconazole.
  Antibiotics: troleandomycin.
  Gastrointestinal prokinetic agents: cisapride, metoclopramide.
  Other drugs: bromocriptine, cimetidine, danazol, protease inhibitors (e.g., for HIV and
  hepatitis C that include drugs such as ritonavir, indinavir, boceprevir, and telaprevir).
  Other drugs that have the potential to decrease sirolimus concentrations include (but are not
 limited to):
 Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin.
 Antibiotics: rifapentine.
 Other Drug-Food Interactions
 Grapefruit juice reduces CYP3A4-mediated drug metabolism.
Grapefruit juice must not be
 taken with or used for dilution of Rapamune [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Drug
 Interactions (7.3)].
 Drug-Herb Interactions  St. John's Wort (hypericum perforatum) induces CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Since sirolimus is a
 substrate for both cytochrome CYP3A4 and P-gp, there is the potential that the use of St.
 Reference ID: 3272763 31
 John's Wort in patients receiving Rapamune could result in reduced sirolimus concentrations
 [see Drug Interactions (7.4)].
 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
 13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
 Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats.
In an 86-week female mouse study at
 sirolimus doses 30 to 120 times higher than the 2 mg daily clinical dose (adjusted for body
 surface area), there was a statistically significant increase in malignant lymphoma at all dose
 levels compared with controls.
In a second mouse study at dosages that were approximately 3
 to 16 times the clinical dose (adjusted for body surface area), hepatocellular adenoma and
 carcinoma in males were considered sirolimus-related.
In the 104-week rat study at dosages
 equal to or lower than the clinical dose of 2 mg daily (adjusted for body surface area), there
 were no significant findings.
 Sirolimus was not genotoxic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay, the Chinese
 hamster ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay, the mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation
 assay, or the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay.
 Fertility was diminished slightly in both male and female rats following oral administration of
 sirolimus at doses approximately 10 times or 2 times, respectively, the clinical dose of 2 mg
 daily (adjusted for body surface area).
In male rats, atrophy of testes, epididymides, prostate,
 seminiferous tubules and/or reduction in sperm counts were observed.
In female rats, reduced
 size of ovaries and uteri was observed.
Reduction of sperm count in male rats was reversible
 upon cessation of dosing in one study.
Testicular tubular degeneration was also seen in a
 4-week intravenous study of sirolimus in monkeys at doses that were approximately equal to
 the clinical dose (adjusted for body surface area).
 14 CLINICAL STUDIES
 14.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection
 Rapamune Oral Solution
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune Oral Solution for the prevention of organ rejection  following renal transplantation were assessed in two randomized, double-blind, multicenter,
 controlled trials.
These studies compared two dose levels of Rapamune Oral Solution (2 mg
 and 5 mg, once daily) with azathioprine (Study 1) or placebo (Study 2) when administered in
 combination with cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
Study 1 was conducted in the United States
 at 38 sites.
Seven hundred nineteen (719) patients were enrolled in this trial and randomized
 following transplantation; 284 were randomized to receive Rapamune Oral Solution 2 mg/day;
 274 were randomized to receive Rapamune Oral Solution 5 mg/day, and 161 to receive
 azathioprine 2-3 mg/kg/day.
Study 2 was conducted in Australia, Canada, Europe, and the
 United States, at a total of 34 sites.
Five hundred seventy-six (576) patients were enrolled in
 this trial and randomized before transplantation; 227 were randomized to receive Rapamune
 Oral Solution 2 mg/day; 219 were randomized to receive Rapamune Oral Solution 5 mg/day,
 and 130 to receive placebo.
In both studies, the use of antilymphocyte antibody induction
 Reference ID: 3272763 32
             therapy was prohibited.
In both studies, the primary efficacy endpoint was the rate of efficacy
 failure in the first 6 months after transplantation.
Efficacy failure was defined as the first
 occurrence of an acute rejection episode (confirmed by biopsy), graft loss, or death.
 The tables below summarize the results of the primary efficacy analyses from these trials.
 Rapamune Oral Solution, at doses of 2 mg/day and 5 mg/day, significantly reduced the
 incidence of efficacy failure (statistically significant at the &lt; 0.025 level; nominal significance
 level adjusted for multiple [2] dose comparisons) at 6 months following transplantation
 compared with both azathioprine and placebo.
 INCIDENCE (%) OF EFFICACY FAILURE AT 6 AND 24 MONTHS FOR STUDY 1a,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Azathioprine
 Oral Solution Oral Solution 2-3 mg/kg/day
 2 mg/day 5 mg/day (n = 161)
 Parameter (n = 284) (n = 274)
 Efficacy failure at 6 monthsc
 18.7 16.8 32.3
 Components of efficacy failure
 Biopsy-proven 16.5 11.3 29.2
 acute rejection
 Graft loss 1.1 2.9 2.5
 Death 0.7 1.8 0
 Lost to follow-up 0.4 0.7 0.6
 Efficacy failure at 24 months 32.8 25.9 36.0
 Components of efficacy failure
 Biopsy-proven 23.6 17.5 32.3
 acute rejection
 Graft loss 3.9 4.7 3.1
 Death 4.2 3.3 0
 Lost to follow-up 1.1 0.4 0.6
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 c: Primary endpoint.
 Reference ID: 3272763 33
                  INCIDENCE (%) OF EFFICACY FAILURE AT 6 AND 36 MONTHS FOR STUDY 2a,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Placebo
 Oral Solution Oral Solution (n = 130)
 2 mg/day 5 mg/day
 Parameter (n = 227) (n = 219)
 Efficacy failure at 6 monthsc
 30.0 25.6 47.7
 Components of efficacy failure
 Biopsy-proven 24.7 19.2 41.5
 acute rejection
 Graft loss 3.1 3.7 3.9
 Death 2.2 2.7 2.3
 Lost to follow-up 0 0 0
 Efficacy failure at 36 months 44.1 41.6 54.6
 Components of efficacy failure
 Biopsy-proven 32.2 27.4 43.9
 acute rejection
 Graft loss 6.2 7.3 4.6
 Death 5.7 5.9 5.4
 Lost to follow-up 0 0.9 0.8
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 c: Primary endpoint.
 Patient and graft survival at 1 year were co-primary endpoints.
The following table shows graft
 and patient survival at 1 and 2 years in Study 1, and 1 and 3 years in Study 2.
The graft and
 patient survival rates were similar in patients treated with Rapamune and comparator-treated
 patients.
 GRAFT AND PATIENT SURVIVAL (%) FOR STUDY 1 (12 AND 24 MONTHS) AND
 STUDY 2 (12 AND 36 MONTHS)a,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Azathioprine Placebo
 Oral Solution Oral Solution 2-3 mg/kg/day
 Parameter 2 mg/day 5 mg/day
 Study 1 (n = 284) (n = 274) (n = 161)
 Graft survival
 Month 12 94.7 92.7 93.8
 Month 24 85.2 89.1 90.1
 Patient survival
 Month 12 97.2 96.0 98.1
 Month 24 92.6 94.9 96.3
 Reference ID: 3272763 34
                        GRAFT AND PATIENT SURVIVAL (%) FOR STUDY 1 (12 AND 24 MONTHS) AND
 STUDY 2 (12 AND 36 MONTHS)a,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Azathioprine Placebo
 Oral Solution Oral Solution 2-3 mg/kg/day
 Parameter 2 mg/day 5 mg/day
 Study 2 (n = 227) (n = 219) (n = 130)
 Graft survival
 Month 12 89.9 90.9 87.7
 Month 36 81.1 79.9 80.8
 Patient survival
 Month 12 96.5 95.0 94.6
 Month 36 90.3 89.5 90.8
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 The reduction in the incidence of first biopsy-confirmed acute rejection episodes in patients
 treated with Rapamune compared with the control groups included a reduction in all grades of
 rejection.
 In Study 1, which was prospectively stratified by race within center, efficacy failure was
 similar for Rapamune Oral Solution 2 mg/day and lower for Rapamune Oral Solution 5 mg/day
 compared with azathioprine in Black patients.
In Study 2, which was not prospectively
 stratified by race, efficacy failure was similar for both Rapamune Oral Solution doses
 compared with placebo in Black patients.
The decision to use the higher dose of Rapamune
 Oral Solution in Black patients must be weighed against the increased risk of dose-dependent
 adverse events that were observed with the Rapamune Oral Solution 5-mg dose [see Adverse
 Reactions (6.1)].
 PERCENTAGE OF EFFICACY FAILURE BY RACE AT 6 MONTHSa,b
 Parameter
 Rapamune
 Oral Solution
 2 mg/day
 Rapamune
 Oral Solution
 5 mg/day
 Azathioprine
 2-3 mg/kg/day
 Placebo
 Study 1
 Black (n = 166)
 Non-Black
 (n = 553)
 34.9 (n = 63)
 14.0 (n = 221)
 18.0 (n = 61)
 16.4 (n = 213)
 33.3 (n = 42)
 31.9 (n = 119)
 Study 2
 Black (n = 66)
 Non-Black
 (n = 510)
 30.8 (n = 26)
 29.9 (n = 201)
 33.7 (n = 27)
 24.5 (n = 192)
 38.5 (n = 13)
 48.7 (n = 117)
 a: Patients received cyclosporine and corticosteroids.
 b: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 Reference ID: 3272763 35
   Mean glomerular filtration rates (GFR) post-transplant were calculated by using the Nankivell
 equation at 12 and 24 months for Study 1, and 12 and 36 months for Study 2.
Mean GFR was
 lower in patients treated with cyclosporine and Rapamune Oral Solution compared with those
 treated with cyclosporine and the respective azathioprine or placebo control.
 OVERALL CALCULATED GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATES (Mean  SEM,
 cc/min) BY NANKIVELL EQUATION POST-TRANSPLANTa,b
 Rapamune Rapamune Azathioprine Placebo
 Oral Solution Oral Solution 2-3 mg/kg/day
 Parameter 2 mg/day 5 mg/day
 Study 1
 Month 12 57.4  1.3 54.6  1.3 64.1  1.6)
 (n = 269) (n = 248) (n = 149)
 Month 24 58.4  1.5 52.6  1.5 62.4  1.9
 (n = 221) (n = 222) (n = 132)
 Study 2
 Month 12 52.4  1.5 51.5  1.5 58.0  2.1
 (n = 211) (n = 199) (n = 117)
 Month 36 48.1  1.8 46.1  2.0 53.4  2.7
 (n = 183) (n = 177) (n = 102)
 a: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 b: Patients who had a graft loss were included in the analysis with GFR set to 0.0.
 Within each treatment group in Studies 1 and 2, mean GFR at one-year post-transplant was
 lower in patients who experienced at least one episode of biopsy-proven acute rejection,
 compared with those who did not.
 Renal function should be monitored, and appropriate adjustment of the immunosuppressive
 regimen should be considered in patients with elevated or increasing serum creatinine levels
 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)].
 Rapamune Tablets
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune Oral Solution and Rapamune Tablets for the prevention
 of organ rejection following renal transplantation were demonstrated to be clinically equivalent
 in a randomized, multicenter, controlled trial [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 14.2 Cyclosporine Withdrawal Study
 The safety and efficacy of Rapamune as a maintenance regimen were assessed following
 cyclosporine withdrawal at 3 to 4 months after renal transplantation.
Study 3 was a
 randomized, multicenter, controlled trial conducted at 57 centers in Australia, Canada, and
 Europe.
Five hundred twenty-five (525) patients were enrolled.
All patients in this study
 received the tablet formulation.
This study compared patients who were administered
 Rapamune, cyclosporine, and corticosteroids continuously with patients who received this
 same standardized therapy for the first 3 months after transplantation (pre-randomization
 Reference ID: 3272763 36
   period) followed by the withdrawal of cyclosporine.
During cyclosporine withdrawal, the
 Rapamune dosages were adjusted to achieve targeted sirolimus whole blood trough
 concentration ranges (16 to 24 ng/mL until month 12, then 12 to 20 ng/mL thereafter,
 expressed as chromatographic assay values).
At 3 months, 430 patients were equally
 randomized to either continue Rapamune with cyclosporine therapy or to receive Rapamune as
 a maintenance regimen following cyclosporine withdrawal.
 Eligibility for randomization included no Banff Grade 3 acute rejection or vascular rejection
 episode in the 4 weeks before random assignment, serum creatinine &#x2264; 4.5 mg/dL, and adequate
 renal function to support cyclosporine withdrawal (in the opinion of the investigator).
The
 primary efficacy endpoint was graft survival at 12 months after transplantation.
Secondary
 efficacy endpoints were the rate of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection, patient survival, incidence
 of efficacy failure (defined as the first occurrence of either biopsy-proven acute rejection, graft
 loss, or death), and treatment failure (defined as the first occurrence of either discontinuation,
 acute rejection, graft loss, or death).
 The following table summarizes the resulting graft and patient survival at 12, 24, and 36
 months for this trial.
At 12, 24, and 36 months, graft and patient survival were similar for both
 groups.
 GRAFT AND PATIENT SURVIVAL (%): STUDY 3a
 Rapamune Rapamune
 with Following Cyclosporine
 Cyclosporine Therapy Withdrawal
 Parameter (n = 215) (n = 215)
 Graft Survival
 Month 12b
 95.3c
 97.2
 Month 24 91.6 94.0
 Month 36d
 87.0 91.6
 Patient Survival
 Month 12 97.2 98.1
 Month 24 94.4 95.8
 Month 36d
 91.6 94.0
 a: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 b: Primary efficacy endpoint.
 c: Survival including loss to follow-up as an event.
 d: Initial planned duration of the study.
 The following table summarizes the results of first biopsy-proven acute rejection at 12 and 36
 months.
There was a significant difference in first biopsy-proven rejection rates between the
 two groups after randomization and through 12 months.
Most of the post-randomization acute
 rejections occurred in the first 3 months following randomization.
 Reference ID: 3272763 37
 INCIDENCE OF FIRST BIOPSY-PROVEN ACUTE REJECTION (%) BY
 TREATMENT GROUP AT 36 MONTHS: STUDY 3a,b
  Rapamune with Rapamune Following
 Cyclosporine Therapy Cyclosporine Withdrawal
 Period (n = 215) (n = 215)
 Pre-randomizationc
 9.3 10.2
  Post-randomization through 12 monthsc
 4.2 9.8
  Post-randomization from 12 to 36 months 1.4 0.5
  Post-randomization through 36 months 5.6 10.2
  Total at 36 months 14.9 20.5
  a: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 b: All patients received corticosteroids.
 c: Randomization occurred at 3 months  2 weeks.
 Patients receiving renal allografts with &#x2265; 4 HLA mismatches experienced significantly higher
 rates of acute rejection following randomization to the cyclosporine withdrawal group,
 compared with patients who continued cyclosporine (15.3% vs. 3.0%).
Patients receiving renal
 allografts with &#x2264; 3 HLA mismatches demonstrated similar rates of acute rejection between
 treatment groups (6.8% vs. 7.7%) following randomization.
 The following table summarizes the mean calculated GFR in Study 3 (cyclosporine withdrawal
 study).
 CALCULATED GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATES (mL/min) BY NANKIVELL
 EQUATION AT 12, 24, AND 36 MONTHS POST-TRANSPLANT: STUDY 3a,b,c
 Rapamune with Rapamune Following
 Parameter Cyclosporine Therapy Cyclosporine Withdrawal
 Month 12
 Mean  SEM 53.2  1.5 59.3  1.5
 (n = 208) (n = 203)
 Month 24
 Mean  SEM 48.4  1.7 58.4  1.6
 (n = 203) (n = 201)
 Month 36
 Mean  SEM 47.0  1.8 58.5  1.9
 (n = 196) (n = 199)
 a: Includes patients who prematurely discontinued treatment.
 b: Patients who had a graft loss were included in the analysis and had their GFR set to 0.0.
 c: All patients received corticosteroids.
 The mean GFR at 12, 24, and 36 months, calculated by the Nankivell equation, was
 significantly higher for patients receiving Rapamune as a maintenance regimen following
 cyclosporine withdrawal than for those in the Rapamune with cyclosporine therapy group.
 Patients who had an acute rejection prior to randomization had a significantly higher GFR
 Reference ID: 3272763 38
   following cyclosporine withdrawal compared to those in the Rapamune with cyclosporine
 group.
There was no significant difference in GFR between groups for patients who
 experienced acute rejection post-randomization.
 Although the initial protocol was designed for 36 months, there was a subsequent amendment
 to extend this study.
The results for the cyclosporine withdrawal group at months 48 and 60
 were consistent with the results at month 36.
Fifty-two percent (112/215) of the patients in the
 Rapamune with cyclosporine withdrawal group remained on therapy to month 60 and showed
 sustained GFR.
 14.3 High-Immunologic Risk Patients
 Rapamune was studied in a one-year, clinical trial in high risk patients (Study 4) who were
 defined as Black transplant recipients and/or repeat renal transplant recipients who lost a
 previous allograft for immunologic reasons and/or patients with high panel-reactive antibodies
 (PRA; peak PRA level &gt; 80%).
Patients received concentration-controlled sirolimus and
 cyclosporine (MODIFIED), and corticosteroids per local practice.
The Rapamune dose was
 adjusted to achieve target whole blood trough sirolimus concentrations of 10-15 ng/mL
 (chromatographic method) throughout the 12-month study period.
The cyclosporine dose was
 adjusted to achieve target whole blood trough concentrations of 200-300 ng/mL through week
 2, 150-200 ng/mL from week 2 to week 26, and 100-150 ng/mL from week 26 to week 52 [see
 Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] for the observed trough concentrations ranges.
Antibody
 induction was allowed per protocol as prospectively defined at each transplant center, and was
 used in 88.4% of patients.
The study was conducted at 35 centers in the United States.
A total
 of 224 patients received a transplant and at least one dose of sirolimus and cyclosporine and
 was comprised of 77.2% Black patients, 24.1% repeat renal transplant recipients, and 13.5%
 patients with high PRA.
Efficacy was assessed with the following endpoints, measured at 12
 months: efficacy failure (defined as the first occurrence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection,
 graft loss, or death), first occurrence of graft loss or death, and renal function as measured by
 the calculated GFR using the Nankivell formula.
The table below summarizes the result of
 these endpoints.
 EFFICACY FAILURE, GRAFT LOSS OR DEATH AND CALCULATED
 GLOMERULAR FUNCTION RATES (mL/min) BY NANKIVELL EQUATION AT 12
 MONTHS POST-TRANSPLANT: STUDY 4
 Rapamune
 with Cyclosporine, Corticosteroids
 Parameter (n = 224)
 Efficacy Failure (%) 23.2
 Graft Loss or Death (%) 9.8
 Renal Function (mean  SEM)a,b
 52.6  1.6
 (n = 222)
 a: Calculated glomerular filtration rate by Nankivell equation.
 b: Patients who had graft loss were included in this analysis with GFR set to 0.
 Reference ID: 3272763 39
 Patient survival at 12 months was 94.6%.
The incidence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection
 was 17.4% and the majority of the episodes of acute rejection were mild in severity.
 14.4 Conversion from Calcineurin Inhibitors to Rapamune in Maintenance Renal
 Transplant Patients
 Conversion from calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) to Rapamune was assessed in maintenance renal
 transplant patients 6 months to 10 years post-transplant (Study 5).
This study was a
 randomized, multicenter, controlled trial conducted at 111 centers globally, including US and
 Europe, and was intended to show that renal function was improved by conversion from CNI to
 Rapamune.
Eight hundred thirty (830) patients were enrolled and stratified by baseline
 calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR, 20-40 mL/min vs. greater than 40 mL/min).
In this
 trial there was no benefit associated with conversion with regard to improvement in renal
 function and a greater incidence of proteinuria in the Rapamune conversion arm.
In addition,
 enrollment of patients with baseline calculated GFR less than 40 mL/min was discontinued due
 to a higher rate of serious adverse events, including pneumonia, acute rejection, graft loss and
 death [see Adverse Reactions (6.4)].
 This study compared renal transplant patients (6-120 months after transplantation) who were
 converted from calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune, with patients who continued to receive
 calcineurin inhibitors.
Concomitant immunosuppressive medications included mycophenolate
 mofetil (MMF), azathioprine (AZA), and corticosteroids.
Rapamune was initiated with a single
 loading dose of 12-20 mg, after which dosing was adjusted to achieve a target sirolimus whole
 blood trough concentration of 8-20 ng/mL (chromatographic method).
The efficacy endpoint
 was calculated GFR at 12 months post-randomization.
Additional endpoints included biopsy-
confirmed acute rejection, graft loss, and death.
Findings in the patient stratum with baseline
 calculated GFR greater than 40 mL/min (Rapamune conversion, n = 497; CNI continuation,
 n = 246) are summarized below: There was no clinically or statistically significant
 improvement in Nankivell GFR compared to baseline.
 RENAL FUNCTION IN STABLE RENAL TRANSPLANT PATIENTS IN PATIENTS
 WITH BASELINE GFR &gt; 40 mL/min THE RAPAMUNE CONVERSION STUDY
 (STUDY 5)
 Parameter Rapamune conversion
 N=496
 CNI continuation
 N=245
 Difference (95% CI)
 GFR mL/min
 (Nankivell) at 1 year
 59.0 57.7 1.3 (-1.1, 3.7)
 GFR mL/min
 (Nankivell) at 2 year
 53.7 52.1 1.6 (-1.4, 4.6)
 The rates of acute rejection, graft loss, and death were similar at 1 and 2 years.
Treatment-
emergent adverse events occurred more frequently during the first 6 months after Rapamune
 conversion.
The rates of pneumonia were significantly higher for the sirolimus conversion
 group.
 Reference ID: 3272763 40
   While the mean and median values for urinary protein to creatinine ratio were similar between
 treatment groups at baseline, significantly higher mean and median levels of urinary protein
 excretion were seen in the Rapamune conversion arm at 1 year and at 2 years, as shown in the
 table below [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)].
In addition, when compared to patients who
 continued to receive calcineurin inhibitors, a higher percentage of patients had urinary protein
 to creatinine ratios &gt; 1 at 1 and 2 years after sirolimus conversion.
This difference was seen in
 both patients who had a urinary protein to creatinine ratio &#x2264; 1 and those who had a protein to
 creatinine ratio &gt; 1 at baseline.
More patients in the sirolimus conversion group developed
 nephrotic range proteinuria, as defined by a urinary protein to creatinine ratio &gt; 3.5 (46/482
 [9.5%] vs. 9/239 [3.8%]), even when the patients with baseline nephrotic range proteinuria
 were excluded.
The rate of nephrotic range proteinuria was significantly higher in the sirolimus
 conversion group compared to the calcineurin inhibitor continuation group with baseline
 urinary protein to creatinine ratio &gt; 1 (13/29 vs. 1/14), excluding patients with baseline
 nephrotic range proteinuria.
 MEAN AND MEDIAN VALUES FOR URINARY PROTEIN TO CREATININE RATIO
 (mg/mg) BETWEEN TREATMENT GROUPS AT BASELINE, 1 AND 2 YEARS IN THE
 STRATUM WITH BASELINE CALCULATED GFR &gt; 40 mL/min
 Study
 period Sirolimus Conversion CNI Continuation
 N
 Mean 
 SD Median N
 Mean 
 SD Median p-value
 Baseline 410 0.35  0.76 0.13 207 0.28  0.61 0.11 0.381
 1 year 423 0.88  1.61 0.31 203 0.37  0.88 0.14 &lt;0.001
 2 years 373 0.86  1.48 0.32 190 0.47  0.98 0.13 &lt;0.001
 The above information should be taken into account when considering conversion from
 calcineurin inhibitors to Rapamune in stable renal transplant patients due to the lack of
 evidence showing that renal function improves following conversion, and the finding of a
 greater increment in urinary protein excretion, and an increased incidence of treatment-
emergent nephrotic range proteinuria following conversion to Rapamune.
This was particularly
 true among patients with existing abnormal urinary protein excretion prior to conversion.
 14.5 Conversion from a CNI-based Regimen to a Sirolimus-based Regimen in Liver
 Transplant Patients
 Conversion from a CNI-based regimen to a Rapamune-based regimen was assessed in stable
 liver transplant patients 6-144 months post-transplant.
The clinical study was a 2:1 randomized,
 multi-center, controlled trial conducted at 82 centers globally, including the US and Europe,
 and was intended to show that renal function was improved by conversion from a CNI to
 Rapamune without adversely impacting efficacy or safety.
A total of 607 patients were
 enrolled.
 The study failed to demonstrate superiority of conversion to a Rapamune-based regimen
 compared to continuation of a CNI-based regimen in baseline-adjusted GFR, as estimated by
 Cockcroft-Gault, at 12 months (62 mL/min in the Rapamune conversion group and 63 mL/min
 Reference ID: 3272763 41
   in the CNI continuation group).
The study also failed to demonstrate non-inferiority, with
 respect to the composite endpoint consisting of graft loss and death (including patients with
 missing survival data) in the Rapamune conversion group compared to the CNI continuation
 group (6.6% versus 5.6%).
The number of deaths in the Rapamune conversion group (15/393,
 3.8%) was higher than in the CNI continuation group (3/214, 1.4%), although the difference
 was not statistically significant.
The rates of premature study discontinuation (primarily due to
 adverse events or lack of efficacy), adverse events overall (infections, specifically), and biopsy-
proven acute liver graft rejection at 12 months were all significantly greater in the Rapamune
 conversion group compared to the CNI continuation group.
 14.6 Pediatrics
 Rapamune was evaluated in a 36-month, open-label, randomized, controlled clinical trial at 14
 North American centers in pediatric (aged 3 to &lt; 18 years) renal transplant patients considered
 to be at high-immunologic risk for developing chronic allograft nephropathy, defined as a
 history of one or more acute allograft rejection episodes and/or the presence of chronic allograft
 nephropathy on a renal biopsy.
Seventy-eight (78) subjects were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to
 Rapamune (sirolimus target concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/mL, by chromatographic assay, n =
 53) in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor and corticosteroids or to continue calcineurin-
inhibitor-based immunosuppressive therapy (n = 25).
The primary endpoint of the study was
 efficacy failure as defined by the first occurrence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection, graft
 loss, or death, and the trial was designed to show superiority of Rapamune added to a
 calcineurin-inhibitor-based immunosuppressive regimen compared to a calcineurin-inhibitor-
based regimen.
The cumulative incidence of efficacy failure up to 36 months was 45.3% in the
 Rapamune group compared to 44.0% in the control group, and did not demonstrate superiority.
 There was one death in each group.
The use of Rapamune in combination with calcineurin  inhibitors and corticosteroids was associated with an increased risk of deterioration of renal
 function, serum lipid abnormalities (including, but not limited to, increased serum triglycerides
 and cholesterol), and urinary tract infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)].
This study
 does not support the addition of Rapamune to calcineurin-inhibitor-based immunosuppressive
 therapy in this subpopulation of pediatric renal transplant patients.
 15 REFERENCES
 Clinical Therapeutics, Volume 22, Supplement B, April 2000 [see Dosage and Administration
 (2.3)].
 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
 Since Rapamune is not absorbed through the skin, there are no special precautions.
However, if
 direct contact of the oral solution occurs with the skin or eyes, wash skin thoroughly with soap
 and water; rinse eyes with plain water.
 Do not use RAPAMUNE after the expiration date that is located on the blister and carton.
The
 expiration date refers to the last day of that month.
 Reference ID: 3272763 42
 16.1 Rapamune Oral Solution
 Each Rapamune Oral Solution carton, NDC 0008-1030-06, contains one 2 oz (60 mL fill)
 amber glass bottle of sirolimus (concentration of 1 mg/mL), one oral syringe adapter for fitting
 into the neck of the bottle, sufficient disposable amber oral syringes and caps for daily dosing,
 and a carrying case.
 Rapamune Oral Solution bottles should be stored protected from light and refrigerated at 2C to
 8C (36F to 46F).
Once the bottle is opened, the contents should be used within one month.
If
 necessary, the patient may store the bottles at room temperatures up to 25C (77F) for a short
 period of time (e.g., not more than 15 days for the bottles).
 An amber syringe and cap are provided for dosing, and the product may be kept in the syringe
 for a maximum of 24 hours at room temperatures up to 25C (77F) or refrigerated at
 2C to 8C (36F to 46F).
The syringe should be discarded after one use.
After dilution, the
 preparation should be used immediately.
 Rapamune Oral Solution provided in bottles may develop a slight haze when refrigerated.
If
 such a haze occurs, allow the product to stand at room temperature and shake gently until the
 haze disappears.
The presence of this haze does not affect the quality of the product.
 16.2 Rapamune Tablets
 Rapamune Tablets are available as follows:
 &#x2022; NDC 0008-1040-05, 0.5 mg, tan, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 0.5
 mg" on one side; bottle containing 100 tablets.
 &#x2022; NDC 0008-1040-10, 0.5 mg, tan, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 0.5
 mg" on one side; in Redipak
 cartons of 100 tablets (10 blister cards of 10 tablets each).
 &#x2022; NDC 0008-1041-05, 1 mg, white, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 1
 mg" on one side; bottle containing 100 tablets.
 &#x2022; NDC 0008-1041-10, 1 mg, white, triangular-shaped tablets marked "RAPAMUNE 1
 mg" on one side; in Redipak
 cartons of 100 tablets (10 blister cards of 10 tablets each).
 &#x2022; NDC 0008-1042-05, 2 mg, yellow-to-beige triangular-shaped tablets marked
 "RAPAMUNE 2 mg" on one side; bottle containing 100 tablets.
 Rapamune Tablets should be stored at 20 to 25C [USP Controlled Room Temperature] (68
 to 77F).
Use cartons to protect blister cards and strips from light.
Dispense in a tight, light-
resistant container as defined in the USP.
 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
 Advise patients, their families, and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and assist
 them in understanding its contents.
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at
 the end of the document.
 See FDA-Approved Medication Guide.
 Reference ID: 3272763 43
     17.1 Dosage
 Patients should be given complete dosage instructions [see FDA-Approved Medication Guide].
 17.2 Skin Cancer Events
 Patients should be told that exposure to sunlight and ultraviolet (UV) light should be limited by
 wearing protective clothing and using a sunscreen with a high protection factor because of the
 increased risk for skin cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)].
 17.3 Pregnancy Risks
 Women of childbearing potential should be informed of the potential risks during pregnancy
 and told that they should use effective contraception prior to initiation of Rapamune therapy,
 during Rapamune therapy, and for 12 weeks after Rapamune therapy has been stopped [see Use
 in Specific Populations (8.1)].
 This product's label may have been updated.
For current full prescribing information, please
 visit www.pfizer.com.
 LAB-0473-3.0
 MEDICATION GUIDE
 RAPAMUNE
 /RAAP-a-mune/
  (sirolimus)
  Tablets
  RAPAMUNE
 /RAAP-a-mune/
  (sirolimus)
  Oral Solution
  Read this Medication Guide before you start taking Rapamune and each time you get a refill.
 There may be new information.
This information does not take the place of talking with your
 doctor or other healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment.
 What is the most important information I should know about RAPAMUNE?
 Rapamune can cause serious side effects, including:
 Reference ID: 3272763 44
 1.
increased risk of getting infections
 2.
increased risk of getting certain cancers
 1.
Increased risk of getting infections.
Serious infections can happen including infections
 caused by viruses, bacteria, and fungi (yeast).
Your doctor may put you on medicine to help
 prevent some of these infections.
 Call your doctor right away if you have symptoms of infection including fever or chills while
 taking Rapamune.
 2.
Increased risk of getting certain cancers.
People who take Rapamune have a higher risk of
 getting lymphoma, and other cancers, especially skin cancer.
Talk with your doctor about your
 risk for cancer.
 RAPAMUNE has not been shown to be safe and effective in people who have had liver or
 lung transplants.
Serious complications and death may happen in people who take
 RAPAMUNE after a liver or lung transplant.
You should not take RAPAMUNE if you have
 had a liver or lung transplant without talking with your doctor.
 See the section "What are the possible side effects of RAPAMUNE?" for information
 about other side effects of RAPAMUNE.
 What is RAPAMUNE?
 RAPAMUNE is a prescription medicine used to prevent rejection (anti-rejection medicine) in
 people 13 years of age and older who have received a kidney transplant.
Rejection is when your
 body's immune system recognizes the new organ as a "foreign" threat and attacks it.
 RAPAMUNE is used with other medicines called cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral,
 Sandimmune), and corticosteroids.
Your doctor will decide:
 &#x2022; if RAPAMUNE is right for you, and
 &#x2022; how to best use it with cyclosporine and corticosteroids after your transplant.
 It is not known if RAPAMUNE is safe and effective in children 13 years or younger.
 Who should not take RAPAMUNE?
 Do not take RAPAMUNE if you are allergic to sirolimus or any of the other ingredients in
 RAPAMUNE.
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in RAPAMUNE.
 What should I tell my doctor before taking RAPAMUNE?
 Before taking RAPAMUNE, tell your doctor if you:
 &#x2022; have liver problems
 &#x2022; have skin cancer or it runs in your family
 &#x2022; have high cholesterol or triglycerides (fat in your blood)
 Reference ID: 3272763 45
   &#x2022;  are pregnant or plan to become pregnant.
You must use an effective method of birth
 control during treatment and for 12 weeks after you stop treatment with RAPAMUNE.
 Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant or think you are pregnant while
 taking RAPAMUNE.
 &#x2022;  It is not known whether RAPAMUNE passes into breast milk.
You and your doctor
 should decide if you will take RAPAMUNE or breastfeed.
You should not do both.
 Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including prescription and non-
prescription medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements.
Using RAPAMUNE with certain
 medicines may affect each other causing serious side effects.
 RAPAMUNE may affect the way other medicines work, and other medicines may affect how
 RAPAMUNE works.
 Especially tell your doctor if you take:
 &#x2022; a medicine to lower your cholesterol or triglycerides
 &#x2022; cyclosporine (including Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune) or tacrolimus (Prograf) or other
 medicines that suppress the immune system
  &#x2022; an antibiotic
  &#x2022; an antifungal medicine
  &#x2022; a medicine for high blood pressure or heart problems
  &#x2022; an anti-seizure medicine
  &#x2022; medicines used to treat stomach acid, ulcers, or other gastrointestinal problems
  &#x2022; bromocriptine mesylate (Parlodel, Cycloset)
 &#x2022; danazol
  &#x2022; medicines to treat HIV or hepatitis C
  &#x2022; St. John's Wort
  How should I take RAPAMUNE?
 &#x2022; Take RAPAMUNE exactly as your doctor tells you to take it.
 &#x2022; Your doctor will tell you how much RAPAMUNE to take and when to take it.
Do not
 change your dose of RAPAMUNE unless your doctor tells you to.
 &#x2022; If you also take cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune), you should take your
 RAPAMUNE and cyclosporine about 4 hours apart.
 &#x2022; Do not stop taking RAPAMUNE or your other anti-rejection medicines unless your
 doctor tells you to.
 &#x2022; Your doctor will check the levels of RAPAMUNE in your blood.
Your doctor may
 change your dose of RAPAMUNE depending on your blood test results.
 &#x2022; RAPAMUNE is taken by mouth once a day.
 &#x2022; Do not crush, chew, or split RAPAMUNE tablets.
Tell your doctor if you cannot
 swallow RAPAMUNE tablets.
Your doctor can prescribe RAPAMUNE as a solution.
 Reference ID: 3272763  46
     &#x2022;  Take each dose of RAPAMUNE the same way, either with or without food.
Food can
 affect the amount of medicine that gets into your bloodstream.
Taking each dose of
 RAPAMUNE the same way helps keep your blood levels of RAPAMUNE more stable.
 Do not take RAPAMUNE with grapefruit juice.
 &#x2022;  RAPAMUNE oral solution can develop a slight haze when it is refrigerated.
If this
 happens, bring the RAPAMUNE Oral Solution to room temperature and then gently
 shake the bottle until the haze goes away.
 &#x2022; See the end of the package insert for detailed Instructions for Use about how to correctly
 prepare and take a dose of RAPAMUNE oral solution.
 &#x2022; If you get RAPAMUNE oral solution on your skin, wash the area with soap and water.
 &#x2022; If you get RAPAMUNE oral solution in your eyes, rinse your eyes with water.
 &#x2022; If you have taken more medicine than you were told, contact a doctor or go to the
 nearest hospital emergency department right away.
 What should I avoid while taking RAPAMUNE?
 &#x2022;  Avoid receiving live vaccines while taking RAPAMUNE.
Some vaccines may not work
 as well while you are taking RAPAMUNE.
 &#x2022;  Limit your time in sunlight and UV light.
Cover your skin with clothing and use a
 sunscreen with a high protection factor because of the increased risk for skin cancer with
 RAPAMUNE.
 What are the possible side effects of RAPAMUNE?
 RAPAMUNE may cause serious side effects, including:
 &#x2022; See "What is the most important information I should know about RAPAMUNE?"
 &#x2022; Serious allergic reactions.
Tell your doctor or get medical help right away if you get
 any of following symptoms of an allergic reaction:
  &#x2022; swelling of your face, eyes, or mouth
  &#x2022; trouble breathing or wheezing
  &#x2022; throat tightness
  &#x2022; chest pain or tightness
  &#x2022; feeling dizzy or faint
  &#x2022; rash or peeling of your skin
  &#x2022;  Swelling (edema).
Fluid may collect in your hands and feet and in various tissues of
 your body, including in the sac around your heart or lungs.
Call your doctor if you have
 trouble breathing.
 &#x2022;  Poor wound healing.
RAPAMUNE may cause your wounds to heal slowly or not heal
 well.
Tell your doctor if you have any redness or drainage, your wound does not heal, or
 the wound opens up.
 &#x2022;  Increased levels of cholesterol and triglycerides (lipids or fat) in your blood.
Your
 doctor should do blood tests to check your lipids during treatment with RAPAMUNE.
 Your doctor may prescribe treatment with diet, exercise, or medicine if your lipid levels
 Reference ID: 3272763  47
 are too high.
During treatment with RAPAMUNE, your blood levels of cholesterol and
 triglycerides may remain high even if you follow your prescribed treatment plan.
 &#x2022;  Effects on kidney function.
When RAPAMUNE is taken with cyclosporine (Gengraf,
 Neoral, Sandimmune), the function of your transplanted kidney may be affected.
Your
 doctor should regularly do tests to check your kidney function while you are taking
 RAPAMUNE with cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune).
 &#x2022; Increased protein in your urine.
Your doctor may regularly test your urine protein.
 &#x2022; Increased risk for viral infections.
 &#x2022;  Certain viruses can live in your body and cause active infections when your
 immune system is weak.
BK virus can affect how your kidney works and cause
 your transplanted kidney to fail.
 &#x2022;  A certain virus can cause a rare serious brain infection called Progressive
 Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML).
PML usually causes death or severe
 disability.
Call your doctor right away if you notice any new or worsening
 medical problems such as:
 &#x2022; confusion
 &#x2022; sudden change in thinking, walking, strength on one side of your body
 &#x2022; other problems that have lasted over several days.
 &#x2022;  Lung or breathing problems.
This can sometimes lead to death.
Tell your doctor if you
 have a new or worsening cough, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing or any new
 breathing problems.
Your doctor may need to stop RAPAMUNE or lower your dose.
 &#x2022;  Blood clotting problems.
When RAPAMUNE is taken with cyclosporine or tacrolimus,
 you may develop a blood clotting problem.
Tell your doctor if you get any unexplained
 bleeding or bruising.
 Common side effects with RAPAMUNE include:
 &#x2022; high blood pressure
  &#x2022; pain (including stomach and joint pain)
  &#x2022; diarrhea
  &#x2022; headache
  &#x2022; fever
  &#x2022; urinary tract infection
  &#x2022; low red blood cell count (anemia)
  &#x2022; nausea
  &#x2022; low platelet count (cells that help blood to clot)
  Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away.
 These are not all of the possible side effects of RAPAMUNE.
For more information ask your
 doctor or pharmacist.
 Reference ID: 3272763  48
 Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
You may report side effects to FDA
 at 1-800-FDA-1088.
 How should I store RAPAMUNE?
 RAPAMUNE tablets:
 &#x2022; Store RAPAMUNE tablets at room temperature between 68F to 77F (20C to 25C).
 &#x2022; Blister cards and strips:
 &#x2022; Keep the tablets in the original blister container and use the outer carton to
 protect blister cards and strips from light.
 &#x2022; Bottles
  &#x2022; Keep the bottle of RAPAMUNE tablets tightly closed.
  RAPAMUNE oral solution:
 &#x2022; Store bottles of RAPAMUNE oral solution in the refrigerator at 36F to 46F (2C to
 8C).
Protect from light.
 &#x2022; If necessary, bottles of RAPAMUNE oral solution can be stored at room temperature up
 to 77F (25C) for up to 15 days.
 &#x2022; When a bottle of RAPAMUNE oral solution is opened, it should be used within 1
 month.
 &#x2022; Use any diluted RAPAMUNE oral solution right away.
 Do not use RAPAMUNE after the expiration date, which is located on the blister and carton.
 The expiration date refers to the last day of that month.
 Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed.
 Keep RAPAMUNE and all medicines out of the reach of children.
 General Information about RAPAMUNE
 Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide.
 Do not use RAPAMUNE for a condition for which it was not prescribed.
Do not give
 RAPAMUNE to other people even if they have the same symptoms that you have.
It may harm
 them.
 This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about RAPAMUNE.
If you
 would like more information talk to your doctor.
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for
 information about RAPAMUNE that is written for health professionals.
 For more information, go to www.rapamune.com or call 1-800-934-5556.
 What are the ingredients in RAPAMUNE?
 Reference ID: 3272763 49
   Active ingredients: sirolimus.
 Inactive ingredients in RAPAMUNE Oral Solution are: Phosal 50 PG
 (phosphatidylcholine,
 propylene glycol, mono- and di-glycerides, ethanol, soy fatty acids, and ascorbyl palmitate) and
 polysorbate 80.
RAPAMUNE Oral Solution contains 1.5%-2.5% ethanol.
 The inactive ingredients in RAPAMUNE Tablets include: sucrose, lactose, polyethylene glycol  8000, calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, pharmaceutical glaze, talc, titanium dioxide,
 magnesium stearate, povidone, poloxamer 188, polyethylene glycol 20,000, glyceryl  monooleate, carnauba wax, dl-alpha tocopherol, and other ingredients.
The 0.5 mg and 2 mg
 dosage strengths also contain yellow iron (ferric) oxide and brown iron (ferric) oxide.
 For Rapamune Oral Tablets:
 For Rapamune Oral Solution:
 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
 LAB-0578-2.0
 Issued December 2012.
 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
 RAPAMUNE /RAAP-a-mune/
 (sirolimus)
 Oral Solution
 Be sure that you read and understand the following instructions for the correct way to dilute
 and take RAPAMUNE Oral Solution.
Ask your pharmacist or doctor if you are not sure.
 Important:
 &#x2022;  Always keep the bottle in an upright position.
 &#x2022;  You may store RAPAMUNE Oral Solution that is in a syringe at room temperature up to
 77F (25C) or in the refrigerator at 36F to 46F (2C to 8C) for up to 24 hours.
See
 "How should I store RAPAMUNE?" at the end of these Instructions for Use.
 Reference ID: 3272763  50
   &#x2022;  RAPAMUNE Oral Solution can develop a slight haze when it is refrigerated.
If this
 happens, bring the RAPAMUNE Oral Solution to room temperature and then gently
 shake the bottle until the haze goes away.
 &#x2022;  Only use a glass or plastic cup to dilute Rapamune Oral Solution.
 Each Rapamune Oral Solution carton contains:
 &#x2022;  a) a 2 oz.
(60 mL fill) amber glass bottle of sirolimus
 (concentration of 1 mg/mL)
 &#x2022; b) 1 oral syringe adapter for fitting into the neck of the bottle
 &#x2022; c) enough disposable amber oral syringes and caps for daily
 dosing
 &#x2022; d) 1 carrying case
 You will also need:
 &#x2022; glass or plastic cup
 &#x2022; 6 oz.
of water or orange juice only
 Figure 1: Opening the bottle
 Figure 2: Inserting adapter
 Figure 3: Inserting syringe
 1.
Open the solution bottle.
 &#x2022;  Remove the safety cap by squeezing
 the tabs on the cap and twisting
 counterclockwise (Figure 1).
 2.
The first time you use a bottle of
 RAPAMUNE Oral Solution:
 &#x2022;  Insert the oral syringe adapter (plastic
 tube with stopper) tightly into the
 bottle until it is even with the top of the
 bottle.
 &#x2022;  Do not remove the oral syringe adapter
 from the bottle once inserted (Figure 2)
 3.
Use a new disposable amber oral syringe for
 each dose of RAPAMUNE Oral Solution.
 &#x2022;  Fully push down (depress) on the
 plunger of the disposable amber oral
 syringe.
 Then, tightly insert the oral syringe into the
 opening in the adapter (Figure 3).
 Reference ID: 3272763  51
     Figure 4: Withdrawing solution
 Figure 5: Capping syringe
 4.
Withdraw the prescribed amount of
 Rapamune Oral Solution:
 &#x2022;  Gently pull back the plunger of the
 syringe until the bottom of the black
 line of the plunger is even with the
 appropriate mark on the syringe.
 &#x2022;  Always keep the bottle in an upright
 position.
 &#x2022;  If bubbles form in the syringe, empty
 the syringe into the bottle and repeat
 steps 3 and 4 (Figure 4).
 5.
If your doctor tells you to carry your
 medicine with you:
 &#x2022;  If you need to carry your RAPAMUNE
 Oral Solution in a filled syringe, place
 a cap securely on the syringe.
The cap
 should snap into place
 (Figure 5).
 6.
Place the capped syringe in the enclosed
 carrying case (Figure 6).
 Figure 6: Placing syringe in carrying case
 7.
Taking a dose of RAPAMUNE Oral
 Solution:
 &#x2022;  Empty the syringe into a glass or
 plastic cup containing at least 2 ounces
 (1/4 cup, 60 mL) of water or orange Figure 7: Emptying syringe into glass juice, stir vigorously for 1 minute and
 drink right away.
 &#x2022;  Refill the container with at least 4
 ounces (1/2 cup, 120 mL) of water or
 orange juice, stir vigorously again and
 drink the rinse solution.
Do not mix
 RAPAMUNE Oral Solution with apple
 juice, grapefruit juice, or other liquids.
 Only glass or plastic cups should be
 used to mix Rapamune Oral Solution.
 Reference ID: 3272763  52
 &#x2022;  The syringe and cap should be used
 only one time and then thrown away
 (Figure 7).
 8.
Always store the bottles of medication in
 the refrigerator.
 How should I store RAPAMUNE?
 &#x2022; Store bottles of RAPAMUNE Oral Solution in the refrigerator at 36F to 46F
 (2C to 8C)
 &#x2022; Protect from light
 &#x2022; Store RAPAMUNE Oral Solution that is in a syringe at room temperature up to
 77F (25C) or in the refrigerator at 36F to 46F (2C to 8C) for up to 24 hours
 &#x2022; If necessary, bottles of RAPAMUNE Oral Solution can be stored at room temperature
 up to 77F (25C) for up to 15 days
 &#x2022; When a bottle of RAPAMUNE Oral Solution is opened, it should be used within
 1 month
 &#x2022; Use any diluted RAPAMUNE Oral Solution right away
 Keep RAPAMUNE and all medicines out of the reach of children.
 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
 Revised July 2011
 LAB-0579-1.0
  Reference ID: 3272763  53
  